Westbrook, Adele Westmoreland, William C. What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? Wiles of War, The: 36 Military Strategies from Ancient China (Sun) Williams, Davey Williams, Ted intelligence gathering by Wilson, Woodrow Windigokan (Ojibwa warrior society) Women, The words lack of power of power through workplace, group dynamics in World Restored, A (Kissinger) World Trade Center attack (2001) World War I Arabs in East African front France in Germany in Great Britain in inner-front strategy in Middle Eastern theater planted information in Turkey in World War II African front camouflage in D-Day deception strategies in forcing strategy in France in Germany in Great Britain in Italy in Japan in London Blitz Pearl Harbor bombing public opinion during Russia in Soviet Union in Spain in United States in Xenophon Xerxes I, king of Persia Yakkoku Yamanouchi, Lord Yang Hu Yawkey, Tom Yom Kippur War Yoriyasu Yu the Sage Zama, Africa Zeus Grateful acknowledgment is made for permission to reprint excerpts from the following copyrighted works: Religious Mythology and the Art of War: Comparative Religious Symbolisms of Military Violence by James A. Aho. Copyright (c) 1981 by James A. Aho. Reprinted by permission of Greenwood Publishing Group, Inc., Westport, Connecticut. Dragonwars: Armed Struggle and the Conventions of Modern War by J. Bowyer Bell. Copyright (c) 1999 by Transaction Publishers. Reprinted by permission of Transaction Publishers. Roosevelt: The Lion and the Fox by James MacGregor Burns. Copyright (c) 1956 by James MacGregor Burns. Copyright renewed 1984 by James MacGregor Burns. Reprinted by permission of Harcourt, Inc. The Years of Lyndon Johnson: The Path to Power by Robert A. Caro. Copyright (c) 1982 by Robert A. Caro. Used by permission of Alfred A. Knopf, a division of Random House, Inc. Journey to Ixtlan: The Lessons of Don Juan by Carlos Castaneda. Copyright (c) 1972 by Carlos Castaneda. Abridged and used by permission of Simon & Schuster Adult Publishing Group. The Art of War in World History: From Antiquity to the Nuclear Age, edited by Gerard Chaliand. Copyright (c) 1994 by The Regents of the University of California. By permission of the University of California Press. Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr. by Ron Chernow. Copyright (c) 1998 by Ron Chernow. Reprinted by permission of Random House, Inc. Clausewitz on Strategy: Inspiration and Insight from a Master Strategist, edited by Tiha von Ghyczy, Bolko von Oetinger, and Christopher Bassford (John Wiley & Sons). Copyright (c) 2001 by The Boston Consulting Group, Inc. Reprinted by permission of The Strategy Institute. On War by Carl von Clausewitz, edited and translated by Michael Howard and Peter Paret. Copyright (c) 1976 by Princeton University Press, renewed 2004 by Princeton University Press. Reprinted by permission of Princeton University Press. Command in War by Martin van Creveld. Copyright (c) 1985 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College. Reprinted by permission of Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Mass. The Generalship of Alexander the Great by J.F.C. Fuller. Copyright (c) 1960 by J.F.C. Fuller. Reprinted by permission of Rutgers University Press. Grant