speed of Samurai Zen: The Warrior Koans (Leggett) Sanjar Sardis (ancient city of Lydia) Sato, Hiroaki Saul Sawyer, Ralph D. Schlesinger, James Schmitt, Carl Scholar's Dilettante Remarks on War, A (Tou) Schopenhauer, Arthur Schwarze Kapelle (Black Orchestra) Scipio Africanus Scotland, England and, war between Scythians Secret Agent, The (Conrad) Secret Life Salvador Dali, The (Dali) secrets Secrets of D-Day, The (Perrault) Secrets of the Samurai (Ratti and Westbrook) segmenting your forces Selected Military Writings (Mao) self-directed warfare counterbalance strategy death-ground strategy guerrilla-war-of-the-mind strategy polarity strategy unconventional self-doubt, inculcating self-esteem self-identity self-interest mutual self-interest war self-reliance Selznick, David O. Seven Pillars of Wisdom (Lawrence) Seven Years' War sexual stereotypes Shah Soojah Shaka (Zulu king) Shakespeare, William Shearer, Norma Shenandoah Valley Sherman, William shih (position of potential force) Shinkage swordsmanship Shostakovich, Dmitry Shun Sidney Janis Gallery silence Simmel, Georg Sinai Desert Sioux Six-Day War Six Secret Teachings (Tai Kung) Skipworth, Alison slavery, strategy examples from Slim, William Smolensk, Russia Smuts, Jan Snodgrass, Fred social relationships Society of Independent Artists Socrates/Socratic method soldiers (team members) ch'i of discipline of emotions of material needs of morale of. See morale (motivation) personalities of punishment of rewards for selecting Sons of Liberty Sophocles Soviet Union Afghanistan invasion by Chinese Civil War and Eastern Europe and United States and in World War II space in guerrilla warfare psychological Spain Carthaginians and England, war with Germany and guerrilla warfare in in Napoleonic Wars Pompey in revolution of 1820 in Roman Empire and in World War II Spanish Armada Sparta speeches speed and mobility. See also blitzkrieg strategy Spellbound Spider King. See Louis XI, king of France Spirit of Terrorism (Baudrillard) spying stalemate Stalin, Joseph Stamp Act, Adams's campaign against Standard Oil Stanton, Edwin Stewart, James Sthenelus Stieglitz, Alfred Sting Like a Bee (Torres and Sugar) Stone, Sam Stopford, Frederick Strangers on a Train Strategic Advantage, The: Sun Zi and Western Approaches to War (Cao) strategic depth Strategies of Psychotherapy, The (Haley) Strategy: The Logic of War and Peace (Luttwak) strategy(ies) acting out as alliance. See alliance(s) annihilation blitzkrieg center-of-gravity chain-reaction. See terrorism childlike command-and-control communication. See communication/ communication strategies controlled-chaos counterattack counterbalance death-ground deterrence diplomatic-war. See negotiation divide-and-conquer divide-and-rule encirclement (envelopment). See encirclement (envelopment) exit. See exits and endings fait accompli forcing formulaic grand. See grand strategy Greek origin of word guerrilla-war-of-the-mind inner-front. See inner-front strategy intelligence martyrdom military misperception. See deception strategies morale. See morale (motivation) nonengagement one-upmanship. See one-upmanship ordinary-extraordinary. See unexpected strategies passive-aggression. See passive-aggression strategy perfect economy polarity psychological righteous. See moral warfare/warriors ripening-for-the-sickle. See maneuver warfare tactics vs turning unexpected of the void. See guerrilla warfare Strategy (Liddell Hart) Sugar, Bert Randolph Sugawara, Makoto Sun Haichen Sun Pin Sun-tzu surrealist movement Suvla Bay, invasion of Switzerland, Burgundy and Sword and the Mind, The (Sato) swordsmen. See samurai (swordsmen) Sydow, Max von Syria Szuma Chien Tacitus tactics death-at-your-heels detached Buddha hyperaggressive no-return Tai Kung (Six Secret Teachings) Takanobu, Lord Takuan Taoism Tao of Spycraft, The (Sawyer) Tao Te Ching (Lao-tzu) Tarentum, Rome's war with