shoot it. West walked off the set, and production came to a halt. Studio executives agreed that West's lines had lightened up the picture; let her have her way with the direction and shoot the shot, they told Mayo. They would edit it out later. Production resumed. The other actress in her scenes, Alison Skipworth, had the distinct impression that West was determining the pace of the lines, getting the camera to focus on her, stealing the scene. Protesting that West was taking over the direction of the movie, Skipworth, too, was told not to worry--it would all be fixed in the editing. When it came time to cut the film, however, West had so altered the mood and pace of her scenes that no editing could bring them back to the original; more important, her sense of timing and direction were solid. She had indeed improved the entire picture. The film debuted in October 1932. The reviews were mixed, but almost all agreed that a new star was born. West's aggressive sexual style and wit fascinated the men in the audience. Though she appeared in just a few scenes, she was the only part of the film anyone seemed to remember. Lines she had written--"I'm a girl who lost her reputation and never missed it"--were quoted endlessly. As Raft later admitted, "Mae West stole everything but the cameras." Audiences were soon clamoring for more Mae West--and Paramount, in financial trouble at the time, could not ignore them. At the age of forty, as plump as ever, West was signed to a long-term contract at the highest salary of any star in the studio. For her next film, Diamond Lil, she would have complete creative control. No other actress--or actor, for that matter--had ever pulled off such a coup and in so short a time. Hideous groans rose from the wounded, And the river water turned crimson with blood. Fish fleeing a dolphin's huge maw Hide by the hundreds in the harbor's crannies, But the dolphin devours whatever it catches. Likewise the Trojans beneath the riverbanks. THE ILIAD, HOMER, CIRCA NINTH CENTURY B.C. Interpretation When Mae West set foot in Hollywood, everything was stacked against her. She was old and passe. The director and an army of studio executives had just one goal: to use her in a scene or two to animate a dull picture, then ship her back to New York. She had no real power, and if she had chosen to fight on their battlefield--one in which actresses were a dime a dozen and exploited to the fullest--she would have gotten nowhere. West's genius, her form of warfare, was slowly but surely to shift the battlefield to terrain of her choice. She began her war by playing the part of the blond bombshell, charming and seducing the Paramount men. Her screen test hooked them--she was difficult, but what actress wasn't? Next she asked to rewrite her lines and, receiving the expected refusal, ratcheted up the stakes by