England Hera Heraclea Heracles Hermes Hernan Cortes: Conqueror of Mexico (de Madariaga) Herodotus Hesperides Heyoka Himmler, Heinrich Hippias, tyrant of Athens Histories, The (Herodotus) History of the Art of War in the Middle Ages (Oman) History of the Peloponnesian War (Thucydides) History of Rome, The (Livy) Hitchcock, Alfred childhood of communication strategies of detached-buddha style of divide-and-rule strategy of fait accompli strategy of passive-aggression strategy of Selznick and Hitler, Adolf Canaris and Dali and deception of Directive 51 of emotional state of Hitter: The Life and Turmoils of Ted Williams (Linn) Hobbes, Thomas Ho Chi Minh Trail Hodges, Gil Hohenlohe, Friedrich Ludwig holding back (patience) Hollywood alliance examples from communication strategies in counterbalance strategy in death-ground strategy in divide-and-rule examples from forcing strategies in maneuver warfare in one-upmanship examples from polarity strategy in Holofernes (biblical general) Holy Alliance Homer honesty Hood, John Hoover, Herbert Hornung, Paul hostility. See aggressive impulses/aggression House at Pooh Corner (Milne) Houston, Sam Howard, Lord Howeitat (Syrian tribe) Hsu Tung Huainanzi Huang Ti Hue, battle at Human, All Too Human (Nietzsche) human evolution human nature. See also people conservatism of as conventional impatience of as nomadic selfishness of study of Hussein, Saddam Hutton, Edward hypocrisy I Ching, The Iemitsu Ikrima Iktomi Iliad, The (Homer) imagination India, Great Britain and Indian National Congress indirect action indirect approach. See turning strategy indirect communication indirect control Indrajit indulgences, selling of inner-front strategy conspiracy defending against spreading dissension through innovation, spiral of inscrutability, cultivating intelligence strategy. See also spying intimidation, avoiding Iran Iran-Contra Affair irony irrationality Irwin, Edward Isaiah Isandlwana, Battle of Isfahan. See Iran Islam Nizari Ismailis and Israel Israelites Italy France and under Mussolini terrorism in in World War II Iwo Jima, Battle of Jackson, Stonewall Japan Russia and in World War II Jebe, General Jena-Auerstadt, Battle of Jenkins, Brian Jesus Jews Jimenez, Juan Ramon Job, Book of Jochi, General Jodl, Alfred Johnson, Lyndon Baines alliance strategy of campaigning style of exits and endings of first run for office of as grand strategist intelligence gathering of leadership style of one-upmanship of Roosevelt and Vietnam War and Johnston, John Jomini, Antoine-Henri de Jonathan Jones, L.E. Jordan, Henry Josephine, empress of France Joshua, Book of Journey to Ixtlan: The Lessons of Don Juan (Castaneda) Judith, Book of jujitsu Julius Caesar (Fuller) Julius II, pope Juvenal Kahn, Roger Karmal, Babrak Keach, Carroll Kennedy, John F. Bay of Pigs and Johnson and Kernstown, battle at Khalid ibn al Waleed Khan, Akbar Khe Sanh, battle at Khwarizm (ancient Asian state) King Henry IV, Part I (Shakespeare) King Henry V (Shakespeare) Kissinger, Henry A. Kleberg, Richard Knight, Ian Kodama, Gentaro Korea Russia and United States and Krishnamurti, Jiddu Kumbakarna Kutusov, Mikhail Labour Party Lacan, Jacques Ladon Landon, Alf M. language. See words Lansdale, Edward Lao-tzu last war Latimer, Gene Latin League Lavagetto, Cookie Lawrence, T.E. leadership errors in. See leadership errors flexibility in from the front Napoleon on through personal example through remote (indirect) control leadership errors broken chain of command divided leadership League