Press, 2001. Potter, Stephen. The Complete Upmanship. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1971. Schmitt, Carl. The Concept of the Political. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1996. Spoto, Donald. The Dark Side of Genius: The Life of Alfred Hitchcock. New York: Da Capo Press, 1999. Sugawara, Makoto. The Lives of Master Swordsmen. Tokyo: The East Publications, 1985. Sun-tzu. The Art of Warfare. Translated and with commentary by Roger T. Ames. New York: Ballantine Books, 1993. Sword and the Mind, The. Translated and with introduction by Hiroaki Sato. Woodstock, NY: Overlook Press, 1986. Tomkins, Calvin. Duchamp: A Biography. New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1996. Tsunetomo, Yamamato. Hagakure: The Book of the Samurai. William Scott Wilson, tr. Tokyo: Kodansha International, 1983. Wilden, Anthony. Man and Woman, War and Peace: The Strategist's Companion. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1987. Wilhelm, Richard. The I Ching (or Book of Changes ). Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1977. Wiles of War: 36 Military Strategies from Ancient China, The. Compiled and translated by Sun Haichen. Beijing: Foreign Languages Press, 1991. Xenophon's Anabasis: The March Up Country. W. H. D. Rouse, tr. New York: A Mentor Classic, 1959. Young, Desmond. Rommel. London: Collins, 1950. INDEX Aberdeen, Lord Abu Jahal abundance Abwehr (German intelligence) Academie Francaise Acamas acclimatization Achilles acting out action(s) inability to take indirect judging others by preemptive results of, importance of through inaction timing of unexpected. See unexpected strategies Adams, John Adams, Samuel ad-Din, Jalal advice Aesop Afghanistan British invasion of Islamic fundamentalism in Soviet invasion of Afranius, Lucius Agamemnon aggressive impulses/ aggression disguised or hidden friendship and holding back against as natural passive. See passive-aggression strategy aggressive passivity aging Agrippa, Vipsanius Aho, James A. Ajax Akiko Alamo, Battle of the Alcibiades Alcyoneus Aldrich, Robert Alexander I, czar of Russia Balkans and European vision of guerrilla warfare of Napoleonic Wars and personality of religious fervour of Alexander II, czar of Russia Alexander III, czar of Russia Alexander the Great (Alexander III), king of Macedon Aristotle and center-of-gravity strategy and as grand strategist mother and Napoleon on Scythians and unconventional warfare of Algeria, France and Ali, Muhammad boxing style of Frazier and Liston and Alinsky, Saul D. alliance(s) avoiding breaking up Dali on emotions and false friendship and game of Machiavelli on mediator, role in Napoleon on quality of Allies, World War I Allies, World War II. See also specific countries blitzkrieg of deception used by unified command of Allifae All's Well That Ends Well (Shakespeare) Al Qaeda Alvintzi, Joseph d' ambiguity ambition ambivalence about having power Ame, Cesare Amin, Hafizullah Amphipolis, Macedonia Anabasis: The March Upcountry (Xenophon) Anatomy of the Zulu Army (Knight) Androcles Andropov, Yuri anger animals, humans as annihilation strategy Antaeus Anti-Machiavel, The (Frederick the Great) Apaches Apollo appearances appeasement Apulia, Italy Aqaba, battle for Arabs, in World War I Arcola, Battle of Ardant du Picq, Charles Ares Ariovistus (Germanic chieftain) Aristotle army(ies). See also specific armies chain of command in mind as a morale of. See morale (motivation) rich Aron, Raymond Art