of Nations Le Baron, William Lee, Robert E. Legends of the Samurai (Sato) Leggett, Trevor Leigh, Vivien Lemon, Bob Lenin, Vladimir Leonhard, Robert R. Leo X, pope Lettow-Vorbeck, Paul von Lewis, Bernard Lewis, John L. Liddell Hart, B.H. limits, knowing Lin Biao Lincoln, Abraham Civil War and Grant and McClernand and as moral warrior reelection of Linn, Ed Liston, Sonny Lives of Master Swordsmen (Sugawara) Livy Locke, John Lockman, Whitey Lodi, Bridge of Lombardi, Vince London Blitz Lone Star Preacher (Thomason) Long, Huey Long March Longus, Sempronius lotus, blooming. See inner-front strategy Louis XI, king of France Louis XII, king of France Louis XIV, king of France bishop of Noyon and love Low Countries loyalty Luther, Martin Luttwak, Edward N. lying MacArthur, Douglas McCarey, Leo McCarthy, Eugene McClellan, George B. McClernand, John McDougall, William McDowell, Irvin Macedonia, Athens and Machiavelli, Niccolo on acclimatization on alliances on effective truth goals of political career of on Roman Empire writing of Mack, Karl McKinley, William Macnaghten, William McPherson, Harry Madariaga, Salvador de Maglie, Sal Mago Magsaysay, Ramon Mahdi Malik Shah Malta Mandragola (Machiavelli) maneuver warfare examples of planning in principles of timing in Mankiewicz, Joseph man management. See morale (motivation) Mantua, fortress of Mao: A Biography (Terrill) Mao Tse-tung in Chinese Civil War divide-and-conquer strategy and guerrilla tactics of Lin Biao and turning strategy of on war Marathon, Athenian victory at Marciano, Rocky Marengo, Battle of Marhabal Maria Theresa Marie Antoinette Marie Louise Marshall, George C. martyrdom Mary, queen of Scots Masinissa, king of Numibia Massena, Andre Master of Deception (Mure) Mastering the Art of War: Zhuge Liang's and Liu Ji's Commentaries on the Classic by Sun Tzu Matali Matashichiro Mathewson, Christy Matthew, Book of Maurikios (Byzantine emperor) Maximus, Fabius Mayo, Archie L. Mazzolini, Silvester. See Prieras Measure for Measure (Shakespeare) media, guerrilla warfare and mediator, role of Medici, Lorenzo de' Medici family Meinhertzhagen, Richard Mein Kampf (Hitler) Melas, Michael Mencius (Confucian philosopher) Menelaus Menoetes Metis Metternich, Klemens von Alexander I and alliance strategy of Napoleon and negotiation style of passive-aggression strategy of personality of Russia and on victory Mexico, Cortes's conquering of MGM Milan, duke of Mildred Pierce military deception. See deception strategies military history. See war/warfare, history of Military History of Ulysses S. Grant (Badeau) Military Misfortunes: The Anatomy of Failure in War (Cohen and Gooch) military thinking, Asian military training German Mongol Prussian Zulu Miller, Tom Milne, A.A. Miltiades mind. See also thinking as an army controlling focused guerrilla-war-of-the penetrating. See communication/ communication strategies presence of as a river Mind of War, The: John Boyd and American Security (Hammond) Miracle Worker, The mirroring people mistakes compelling fear of making mobility. See speed and mobility Moctezuma II, emperor of Mexico Mohammed Moltke, Helmuth von Mongols annihilation by divide-and-conquer strategy of intelligence gathering by Khwarizm and slow-slow-quick-quick strategy of terrorism of Montgomery, Bernard morale (motivation) contagiousness of emotion manipulation and as insufficient alone steps to undermining morality moral terrain moral warfare/warriors avoiding defending against as exterior maneuver public opinion in self-interest war