friendship as inner. See inner-front strategy internal vs. external leadership from passive. See passive-aggression strategy frontal attack Fuji-yori, Mori Fuller, J.F.C. FUSAG (First United States Army Group) Gallic War Gallipoli, Battle of chain of command errors in perfect economy errors in gamble, risk compared with Gandhi, Mahatma, passive-aggression strategy of, xviii Ganryu, Sasaki Garfield, James A. Gaul Gaulle, Charles de fait accompli strategy of one-upmanship of Roosevelt and terrorism, response to Gay Science, The (Nietzsche) Generalship of Alexander the Great, The (Fuller) General's War, The: The Inside Story of the Conflict in the Gulf (Gordon and Trainor) generosity (helping others) Genghis Khan blitzkrieg strategy of controlled chaos strategy of divide-and-conquer strategy and Genius for War, A: The German Army and the General Staff, 1807-1845 (Dupuy) Genzaemon George III, king of England German army Germanic forces, Roman empire and Germany blitzkrieg strategy of France and Great Britain and Germany during Reformation Spain and terrorism of in World War I in World War II Geryon Ghilzye tribes Giap, Vo Nguyen Gibraltar Giraud, Henri Gisgo (Carthaginian soldier) glaciation Glubb, John Bagot goals gods, Greek. See also specific gods Gooch, John good and evil, definition of Gorbachev, Mikhail Gordon, Michael R. Gould, Jay Gourmont, Remy de Gracian, Baltasar Grande Armee grand strategy first move in goals and perspective and politics and principles of severing the roots Granicus, Battle of the Grant, Cary Grant, Ulysses S. McClernand and one-upmanship of self-reliance of unexpected strategies of Graves, Robert Great Arab Conquests, The (Glubb) Great Britain Afghanistan and Burgundy and civil war in colonial U.S. and Denmark, war with Falkland Islands and France and Germany and India and Napoleonic Wars and Russia and Scotland, war with Spanish Armada defeated by Turkey and in World War I in World War II Zulus, war with Great Hunt, Mongol Greco-Persian Wars, The (Green) Greece/Greeks. See also Athens/Athenians good and evil in humankind, understanding of inner-front strategy of Persia and Pompey in Rome and Russia and Trojan horse and Turks and uniting of Greek Myths, The (Graves) Green, Peter Green Bay Packers group myth group(s). See also specific groups collective personality of dynamics ego factions within importance in human evolution Groupthink, avoiding Groves, Leslie R. Guadalcanal, Battle of Guderian, Heinz guerrilla warfare cells in counterstrategy to history of media and as psychological space in Spanish origin of term technology and time in void, lure in guerrilla-war-of-the-mind strategy guilt Gulf War (1991) exit errors in one-upmanship in as perfect economy example Hagakure: The Book of the Samurai (Tsunetomo) Haiti Hakamadare Haley, Jay Hamilton, Edith Hamilton, Ian Hammersley, Frederick Hammond, Grant T. Hannibal annihilation strategy and defeat by Scipio Africanus encirclement strategy and intelligence gathering by morale strategies and perfect-economy strategy and Roman Empire, attacks on unconventional warfare of Hara: The Vital Centre (von Durckheim) Harding, Warren G. Hardy, Thomas Hasan i-Sabah Hasdrubal (Carthaginian general) hatred Head, Edith Head Game, The (Kahn) Hector heels, keeping people on their Hegel, Georg Helen Hellenic League helping others. See generosity (helping others) Henry VIII, king of