in maneuver warfare Plato Pleasure Garden, The Poe, Edgar Allan Poggioli, Renato Poland polarity strategy politics alliance strategy in exits and endings in grand strategy and guerrilla warfare in maneuver warfare in one-upmanship in polarity strategy in turning strategy in unconventional warfare in Polk, Shelton Pompeia Pompey Port Arthur, Manchuria Porus Poseidon potential force, position of Potter, Stephen poverty power Pratzen Heights preconceptions preemptive action presence of mind present, the attunement to. See mind, presence of presidential elections, U.S. 1940 1972 1988 Priam Prieras Prince, The (Machiavelli) Protestant Reformation as political victory Proteus Prussia Austria and in Napoleonic Wars Russia and Prussian army. See also German army Auftragstaktik system of general staff of military traditions of reform of Prylis Psalms, Book of Psycho psychoanalysis, terrorism example from psychological aging psychological pressure psychological space psychological types psychological weaknesses Ptolemy public opinion in moral warfare in Roman civil war on Vietnam War during World War II Publius Scipio the Younger. See Scipio Africanus punishment Pyrrhic victory Pyrrhus, king of Epirus Qi (warring state of China) Raft, George Rama Ramayana, The Raphael rational fighting. See emotions, controlling Ratti, Oscar Reagan, Ronald reality Rebecca Records of the Historian (Szuma) Red Army Red Badge of Courage, The (Crane) Red Brigades Reese, Pee Wee Reign of Terror religious fervor Alexander I's Cromwell's Religious Mythology and the Art of War (Aho) religious retreat religious symbolism, in Gandhi's campaign Republican Party in 1936 presidential election in 1972 presidential election Clinton and reputation moral restless, remaining retreat revenge reverse intimidation. See deterrence strategies Revolutionary War, U.S. Richelieu, Cardinal righteous strategy. See moral warfare/warriors rigidity risk taking gambling compared with Ritter, Thelma rivals. See enemy(ies) Robert the Bruce (Robert I), king of Scotland Robespierre Robinson, Jackie Rockefeller, John D. Roman Way, The (Hamilton) Rome/Roman Empire Carthaginians and center-of-gravity strategy used by civil war divide-and-rule used by First Triumvirate of Gaul and Germanic forces and inner-front strategy in Latin League and military style of Spain and Tarentum, war against Rommel, Erwin Roosevelt, Franklin Delano blitzkrieg strategy of "brain trust" of center-of-gravity strategy and de Gaulle and as guerrilla warrior Johnson and leadership style of maneuver warfare and Marshall and mental toughness of passive-aggression strategy of as polarizer presidential candidacy of reelection of third-term campaign of turning strategy of Roosevelt, Theodore Roosevelt: The Lion and the Fox (Burns) Rorke's Drift, Zululand Rules for Radicals (Alinsky) Rules of War and Bravery Runstedt, Gerd von Russia. See also Soviet Union Austria and China and communism, birth of France and Great Britain and Greece and Japan and Korea and Malta and Naples' revolution of 1820 and in Napoleonic Wars Piedmont revolution and Prussia and in Seven Years' War Spanish revolution of 1820 and terrorism in White Terror in in World War II sabotage Sadat, Anwar Saigon St. Peter's Basilica Salt March, Gandhi's Samarkand Samuel, Book of samurai (swordsmen) communication strategy of counterattack strategy of counterbalance strategy of death, contemplation of deterrence strategy of guerrilla-war-of-the-mind strategy of intelligence strategy of maneuver warfare in one-upmanship examples from