and Lee: A Study in Personality and Generalship by J.F.C. Fuller (Indiana University Press). Copyright (c) 1957 by J.F.C. Fuller. By permission of David Higham Associates. Julius Caesar: Man, Soldier and Tyrant by J.F.C. Fuller. Copyright (c) 1965 by J.F.C. Fuller. Reprinted by permission of Rutgers University Press. The Greco-Persian Wars by Peter Green. Copyright (c) 1996 by Peter Green. Reprinted by permission of University of California Press. Strategies of Psychotherapy by Jay Haley (Triangle Press). Copyright (c) 1967 by Jay Haley. By permission of the author. Masters of War: Classic Strategic Thought by Michael I. Handel (Frank Cass Publishers). Copyright (c) 1992 by Michael I. Handel. Reprinted by permission of Taylor & Francis Books. Iliad by Homer, translated by Stanley Lombardo. Copyright (c) 1997 by Hackett Publishing Company, Inc. Reprinted by permission of Hackett Publishing Company, Inc. All rights reserved. The Head Game: Baseball Seen from the Pitcher's Mound by Roger Kahn. Copyright (c) 2000 Hook Slide, Inc. Reprinted by permission of Harcourt, Inc. A World Restored: Metternich, Castlereagh and the Problems of Peace 1812-1822 by Henry Kissinger (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1957). Reprinted by permission of the publisher. The Anatomy of the Zulu Army: From Shaka to Cetshwayo 1818-1879 by Ian Knight. Copyright (c) 1995 by Ian Knight. Reprinted by permission of Greenhill Books, London. Samurai Zen: The Warrior Koans by Trevor Leggett (Routledge). Copyright (c) 2002 by The Trevor Leggett Adhyatma Yoga Trust. Reprinted by permission of Taylor & Francis Books. The Art of Maneuver: Maneuver-Warfare Theory and Airland Battle by Robert R. Leonhard. Copyright (c) 1991 by Robert R. Leonhard. Used by permission of Presidio Press, an imprint of The Ballantine Publishing Group, a division of Random House, Inc. Hitter: The Life and Turmoils of Ted Williams by Ed Linn. Copyright (c) 1993 by Edward A. Linn. Reprinted by permission of Harcourt, Inc. The Ramayana of R. K. Narayan by R. K. Narayan. Copyright (c) R. K. Narayan, 1972. Used by permission of Viking Penguin, a member of Penguin Group (USA) Inc. The Gay Science by Friedrich Nietzsche, edited by Bernard Williams, translated by Josefine Nauckhoff. Copyright (c) 2001 by Cambridge University Press. Reprinted by permission of Cambridge University Press. Human, All Too Human: A Book of Free Spirits by Friedrich Nietzsche, translated by R. J. Hollingdale. Copyright (c) 1986, 1996 by Cambridge University Press. Reprinted by permission of Cambridge University Press. The Art of Political Warfare by John J. Pitney, Jr. Copyright (c) 2000 by University of Oklahoma Press. Reprinted by permission of University of Oklahoma Press. The Tao of Spycraft: Intelligence Theory and Practice in Traditional China by Ralph D. Sawyer. Copyright (c) 1998 by Ralph D. Sawyer. Reprinted by permission of Westview Press, a member of Perseus Books, LLC. The Art of War by Sun-tzu, translated by Ralph D. Sawyer. Copyright (c) 1994 by Ralph D. Sawyer. Reprinted by permission of Westview Press, a member of Perseus Books, LLC. Sun-tzu: The Art of Warfare by Sun-tzu, translated by Roger T. Ames. Copyright (c) 1993