for Murder Diamond Lil Dien Bien Phu, battle at dilemmas Diomedes diplomacy diplomatic-war strategy. See negotiation dirty warfare. See unconventional warfare discipline discontent. See complaints and discontent Discourses, The (Machiavelli) disorder, maximum divide-and-conquer strategy divide-and-rule strategy Dixit, Avinashi Dole, Elizabeth Dole, Robert Donat, Robert Dost Mahomed Khan Dostoyevsky, Fyodor epilepsy of imprisonment of writing of Douglass, Frederick Dragonwars (Bell) Drake, Francis dreams/dreaming Duchamp, Marcel Dudley, Robert dumb, playing Dunne, Irene Dupuy, T. N. Durckheim, Karlfried Graf von Durnford, Anthony William Eastern Europe, Soviet Union and East India Company Ecce Homo (Nietzche) Echidne education, as limiting factor Edward I, king of England Edward II, king of England Edward III, king of England Edward IV, king of England effective truth efficiency ego(s) group Egypt/Egyptians Persians and in World War II in Yom Kippur War Eisenhower, Dwight D. El Al hijacking (1968) Elizabeth I, queen of England divide-and-rule strategy of leadership style of Spanish Armada and spy network of Elizabeth Petrovna, empress of Russia Eluard, Paul and Gala Emerson, Ralph Waldo emotions. See also specific emotions alliances and appealing to contagiousness of controlling during endings manipulating passive-aggression strategy and encirclement (envelopment) psychological ultimate form of endings. See exits and endings enemy(ies) adaptation by befriending choosing confusing decentralized declaring war on dilemmas for elusive enveloping having fewer resources than your identifying infiltration of. See inner-front strategy inner intelligence gathering on knowing Latin root of word open, rarity of outer perceptions held by powerful power sources of revealing secret self-destruction of uses for weaknesses, pinpointing weak salient, exposure on England. See Great Britain enthusiasm. See morale (motivation) envelopment. See encirclement (envelopment) Epeius Erickson, Milton H. Erie Railroad Essex, earl of Etherington-Smith, Meredith Eurystheus Eurytion Everitt, Anthony exits and endings as beginnings emotional resonance of importance of Nietzsche on timing of worst method for exterior maneuver moral warfare as extraordinary, ordinary and Fabius (Roman general) fait accompli strategy Fala (FDR's terrier) Falkland Islands, British war for false surrender Family Book on the Art of War (Munenori) family dynamics fear fearlessness, cultivating Feisal, Sherif Fighting France Fingerspitzengefuhl (fingertip feel) First Punic War First Triumvirate, Roman flanking maneuvers. See turning strategy flexibility Florence followers. See soldiers (team members) Fontaine, Joan fools, suffering football, strategy examples from forcing strategies foresight formulaic strategies fortress defense Fountain (Duchamp) France Algeria and Allied invasion of Austria and blitzkrieg of Burgundy and Germany and Great Britain and Haiti and Italy and Napoleonic Wars of occupation of Prussia and Reign of Terror in Russia and in Seven Years' War Spain and terrorism in unification of Vichy government Vietnam and in World War I in World War II Francis I, emperor of Austria Franco, Francisco Franklin, Benjamin Frazier, Joe Frederick the Great (Frederick II), king of Prussia fait accompli strategy of influence of Machiavelli and nonengagement strategy and in Seven Years' War on the unexpected freedom, as burden Free France French-Algerian wars French Resistance French Revolution friction Friedrich Wilhelm III, king of Prussia friendship/friendliness alliances and as front as negotiating tool toward enemies front false