compared with types of Moreau, Jean Morris, Dick Moscow, Napoleon's attack on Moses Mother Earth motivation. See morale (motivation) Moulin, Jean movie making. See Hollywood Muhammad II, shah of Khwarizm Muhammad Tapar mujahideen Mumon, Zen Master Munenori, Yagyu Munich Olympics, attack on Murat, Caroline "Murders in the Rue Morgue, The" (Poe) Mure, David Murphy's Law Musashi, Miyamoto Mussolini, Benito Mutekatsu-ryu My Bondage and My Freedom (Douglass) myth, group mythology Nalebuff, Barry J. Naoshige, Lord Naples, revolution of 1820 in Napoleon I. See Bonaparte, Napoleon Napoleon II narcissism Narodnaya Volia (People's Will) Naseby, Battle of Natal Nationalists, Chinese National Youth Administration Native Americans. See also specific tribes counterattack strategy used against intelligence strategy used by unconventional warfare of negotiation friendliness in war and, comparison between warrior vs. shopkeeper style of Nelson, Horatio Nereus neurotic pattern New Carthage New Deal New Model Army, British New York Giants New York Yankees Nicholas I, czar of Russia Nicholson, Harold Nietzsche, Friedrich Night After Night "Night in a Surrealist Forest" (Dali) Ninety-five Theses (Luther) Nineveh Nixon, Richard Nizan al-Mulk nonengagement strategy North Vietnamese army camouflage used by grand strategy of inner-front strategy of as moral warriors unity of command in Noyon, bishop of objectivity Ochiai, Hidy Octavian Odawara Castle Odysseus Odyssey, The (Homer) Oedipus Rex (Sophocles) offensive warfare annihilation strategy blitzkrieg strategy center-of-gravity strategy diplomatic. See negotiation divide-and-conquer strategy exit strategy. See exits and endings forcing strategies grand strategy. See grand strategy intelligence strategy maneuver. See maneuver warfare turning strategy oil industry, strategy examples from Ojibwas Olivier, Lawrence Olmutz, Austria Olympias Oman, Charles one-upmanship direct approach to glaciation in through mockery On Partisans and Irregular Forces (Corvey) On War (von Clausewitz) Operation Desert Storm Operation Sealion opponents. See enemy(ies) Orestes Orgakov, Nikolai organizational war. See also leadership command-and-control strategy controlled-chaos strategy morale strategies Orthrus Otrar outflanking strategy. See turning strategy outsider, power of the Ovid pacifism (nonviolence) Pakistan Palamedes Palestinian terrorists panic Paradine Case, The Paramount Pictures paranoia avoiding playing on people's Paris Paris, archbishop of Parker, Hyde parody passive-aggression strategy confusion as result of conscious vs. semiconscious defending against emotions and pervasiveness of sabotage passivity. See holding back (patience) past, the Path to Power, The: The Years of Lyndon Johnson (Caro) patience. See holding back (patience) Patterson, Floyd Patton, George S. Patton: A Genius for War (D'Este) Peace of Philocrates Pearl Harbor, attack on Peloponnesian War Pemberton, James Peninsular War Pentagon 9/11 attack on people reading reasoning power limitations in types of using Perdiccas, king of Macedonia Pere La Chaise perfect-economy strategy Perrault, Gilles Persia/Persians Athens and Persia/Persians Greece and Islam and Medes and Russia and Persistence of Memory, The: A Biography of Dali (Etherington-Smith) perspective persuasion Peter III, czar of Russia Petrashevsky, Mikhail Petreius Phantom over Vietnam (Trotti) Pharsalus, Battle of Philip II, king of Macedon Philip II, king of Spain Philip the Good (Philip III), duke of Burgundy Philippines Piaget, Jean Picasso, Pablo piecemeal strategy. See fait accompli strategy Piedmont, revolution in Pisander (Athenian politician) Pitney, John J., Jr. plans/planning with branches