at night, not knowing where to step. Without eyes and ears, they are as though in the dark, not knowing how to proceed. Without claws and fangs, they are like hungry men eating poisoned food, inevitably to die. Therefore good generals always have intelligent and learned associates for their advisors, thoughtful and careful associates for their eyes and ears, brave and formidable associates for their claws and fangs. Careful Watching The loss of an army is always caused by underestimating an opponent and thus bringing on disaster. Therefore an army goes out in an orderly manner. If order is lost, that bodes ill. There are fifteen avenues of order: 1. Thoughtfulness, using secret agents for intelligence 2. Organization, gathering news and watching carefully 3. Courage, not being disturbed by the number of the enemy 4. Modesty, thinking of justice and duty when seeing the opportunity for gain 5. Impartiality, being egalitarian in matters of rewards and punishments 6. Forbearance, being able to bear humiliation 7. Magnanimity, being able to accept the masses 8. Trustworthiness, so that there can be serious cooperation 9. Respect, honoring the wise and able 10. Clarity of mind, not listening to slander 11. Reason, not forgetting past experience 12. Human kindness, taking care of the soldiers 13. Loyalty, devoting oneself to the nation 14. Moderation, knowing to stop when you have enough of anything 15. Planning, assessing yourself first, and then assessing others 1. Formation of Opportunity To overcome the intelligent by folly is contrary to the natural order of things; to overcome the foolish by intelligence is in accord with the natural order. To overcome the intelligent by intelligence, however, is a matter of opportunity. There are three avenues of opportunity: events, trends, and conditions. When opportunities occur through events but you are unable to respond, you are not smart. When opportunities become active through a trend and yet you cannot make plans, you are not wise. When opportunities emerge through conditions but you cannot act on them, you are not bold. Those skilled in generalship always achieve their victories by taking advantage of opportunities. Good Generalship Good generals of ancient times had some overall principles: 1. Show people when to proceed and when to withdraw, and people will learn regulation. 2. Array them on the lines rightly and justly, and people will be orderly. 3. Show respect for them by your judgments, and people will be enthusiastic. 4. Motivate them with rewards and penalties, and people will be trusting. Regulation, order, enthusiasm, and trust are the overall principles of generals, by which they are able to ensure victory in battle. The mediocre are not like this: they cannot stop their troops when they retreat, they cannot control their troops when they advance, they mix up good and bad, the soldiers are not given instruction and encouragement, rewards and punishments are not fair. Because people are not trusting, the wise and the good withdraw, while flatterers are promoted. Such an army will therefore inevitably be