Strategy Cadence is inherent in all things, especially as far as strategy is concerned.66 It is not possible to master cadence without thorough training. In this world we can see that different cadences exist. The cadences of the way of the dance and of musicians with their stringed or wind instruments are all concordant and without distortion.67 Going through the various ways of the martial arts, there are different cadences depending on whether you are shooting a bow, firing a gun, or riding a horse. You must not go against cadence in any of the arts, nor in any handcraft. Cadence also exists for that which does not have a visible form.68 Regarding the situation of a warrior in the service of a lord, according to the cadences he follows, he will rise or fall in the hierarchy, for there are cadences that are concordant and others that are discordant. In the way of business, there are cadences for making a fortune and cadences for losing it. In each way, there exist different cadences. You must discern well the cadences in conformity with which things prosper and those in conformity with which things decline. In strategy, different cadences exist. First it is necessary to know the concordant cadences and then to learn the discordant ones.69 Among the large or small and slow or fast cadences, it is indispensable for strategy to discern striking cadences, interval cadences, and opposing cadences.70 Your strategy cannot be sure if you do not succeed in mastering the opposing cadence. At the time of strategic combat, you must know the cadences of each enemy and utilize cadences that they will not think of. You will win by unleashing the cadences of emptiness that are born from those of wisdom. In each scroll, I will write about cadence. Examine these writings and train well. If you practice diligently, from morning till night, the way of strategy I teach, your mind will spontaneously broaden. I am transmitting to the world my strategy in its collective and individual dimensions. I am expounding it for the first time in writing in these five scrolls of Earth, Water, Fire, Wind, and Heaven. Those who would like to learn my strategy should apply the following rules in order to practice the way: 1. Think of that which is not evil.71 2. Train in the way. 3. Take an interest in all the arts. 4. Know the way of all professions. 5. Know how to appreciate the advantages and disadvantages of each thing. 6. Learn to judge the quality of each thing. 7. Perceive and understand that which is not visible from the outside. 8. Be attentive even to minimal things. 9. Do not perform useless acts. You must train in the way of strategy keeping these general principles in mind. Particularly in this way, if you do not know how to see the right things in broad perspective, you will not be able to become an accomplished practitioner of strategy. If you