intensified in frequency and violence, culminating in a prolonged period of virtually continuous warfare appropriately known as the era of the Warring States, which lasted from the fifth through the third centuries B.C.E. A relentless campaign of the late third century finally ended these interstate wars and created a united China for the first time in history. This was followed by wars of expansion, which are analogous to the ancient tribal wars through which the proto-Chinese people originally established dominance over the Yellow River basin. Under the united Chinese regime, warfare between the ruled and the rulers became a typical pattern of conflict, in which regionalism continued to play a part. Struggles between local interests and central control, and between overclasses and underclasses, played themselves out in various combinations and elaborations of these elements through countless civil and foreign intrigues and wars in the centuries to come. Added to this were clan and family rivalries, as well as political conflicts among the intelligentsia, palace eunuchs, and imperial in-laws. On greater and smaller scales, the race for power and possessions became a distinct facet of human events, to which practical philosophers responded with a science of security and strategic action. Some of the most poignant statements on war and warriorhood originate in the classic Tao Te Ching, generally thought to have been compiled during the early to middle Warring States era. In the characteristic fashion of Taoism, this popular text seeks out the confluence of ethical and practical wisdom: Weapons, being instruments of ill omen, Are not the tools of the cultured, Who use them only when unavoidable, And consider it best to be aloof. They win without beautifying it: Those who beautify it Enjoy killing people. Those who enjoy killing people Cannot get their will of the world. When you are in ascendancy of power, You handle it as you would a mourning: When you have killed many people, You weep for them in sorrow. When you win a war, You celebrate by mourning. The same classic also describes the skilled warrior in similar terms, as the antithesis of bravado and violence: Skilled warriors of old were subtle, Mysteriously powerful, So deep they were unknowable. Just because they are unknowable, I will try to describe them: Their wariness was as that of one Crossing a river in winter; Their caution was as that of one In fear of all around. They were serious as guests, Relaxed as ice at the melting point. Simple as uncarved wood, Open as the valleys, They were inscrutable as murky water. This Taoist stream of thought had a distinct influence on the strategic outlook of The Art of War, and elements of its penetrating criticism of tyranny in all forms also appear in the ideas of the later Warring States philosophers Mozi and Mencius. Both of these thinkers, especially Mozi, were activists, noted for their strong views on warfare. Teaching that social well-being derives from universal love, Mozi described warfare as mass murder and ridiculed