the force of their momentum. Master Sun Where there are hills or embankments keep on their sunny side, with them to your right rear. This is an advantage to a military force, the help of the land. ZHANG YU Advantage in a military operation is getting help from the land. Master Sun When it rains upstream and froth is coming down on the current, if you want to cross, wait until it settles. CAO CAO This is lest the river suddenly swell when you are half across. Master Sun Whenever the terrain has impassable ravines, natural enclosures, natural prisons, natural traps, natural pitfalls, and natural clefts, you should leave quickly and not get near them. For myself, I keep away from these, so that opponents are nearer to them; I keep my face to these so that opponents have their backs to them. CAO CAO In military operations, always keep away from these six kinds of dangerous ground formation, while maneuvering so that your enemy is near them, with his back to them. Then you have the advantage, and he is out of luck. Master Sun When an army is traveling, if there is hilly territory with many streams and ponds or depressions overgrown with reeds, or wild forests with a luxuriant growth of plants and trees, it is imperative to search them carefully and thoroughly. For these afford stations for bushwackers and spoilers. ZHANG YU It is imperative to dismount and search, lest there be ambush troops hiding in such places. Also, there is concern that spies might be lurking there watching you and listening to your directives. Master Sun When the enemy is near but still, he is resting on a natural stronghold. When he is far away but tries to provoke hostilities, he wants you to move forward. If his position is accessible, it is because that is advantageous to him. DU MU What this means is that if an opponent does not keep a position on a natural stronghold but stations himself in a convenient place, it must be because there is some practical advantage in doing so. Master Sun When the trees move, the enemy is coming; when there are many blinds in the undergrowth, it is misdirection. DU YOU The idea of making many blinds in the underbush is to make you think there might be bushwhackers hidden behind them. Master Sun If birds start up, there are ambushers there. If the animals are frightened, there are attackers there. If dust rises high and sharp, vehicles are coming; if it is low and wide, footsoldiers are coming. Scattered wisps of smoke indicate woodcutters. Relatively small amounts of dust coming and going indicate setting up camp. MEI YAOCHEN Light troops set up camp, so the dust raised by their comings and goings is relatively little. Master Sun Those whose words are humble while they increase war preparations are going to advance. Those whose words are strong and who advance aggressively are going to retreat. CAO