ZHANG YU Put them in a vulnerable position and they will surrender on their own. Another strategy is to cause rifts in their ranks, causing harm by wearying them and putting the people out of work. DU MU Wear enemies out by keeping them busy and not letting them rest. But you have to have done your own work before you can do this. This work means developing a strong militia, a rich nation, a harmonious society, and an orderly way of life. Master Sun So the rule of military operations is not to count on opponents not coming, but to rely on having ways of dealing with them; not to count on opponents not attacking, but to rely on having what cannot be attacked. HO YANXI If you can always remember danger when you are secure and remember chaos in times of order, watch out for danger and chaos while they are still formless and prevent them before they happen, this is best of all. Master Sun Therefore there are five traits that are dangerous in generals: Those who are ready to die can be killed; those who are intent on living can be captured; those who are quick to anger can be shamed; those who are puritanical can be disgraced; those who love people can be troubled. CAO CAO Those who are brave but thoughtless and insist on fighting to the death cannot be made to yield, but they can be struck by ambush. MENG SHI When the general is timid and weak and intent on getting back alive, his heart is not really in the battle and his soldiers are not really keen. Both officers and troops are hesitant, so they are vulnerable to attack and capture. CAO CAO Quick-tempered people can be lured into coming to you by anger and embarrassment, puritanical people can be lured into coming to you by slander and disgrace. And if you appear in a place they are sure to rush to defend, those who love the people there will invariably hasten there to rescue them, troubling and wearying themselves in the process. Master Sun These five things are faults in generals, disasters for military operations. CHEN HAO Good generals are otherwise: they are not committed to death yet do not expect to live; they act in accord with events, not quick to anger, not subject to embarrassment. When they see possibility, they are like tigers, otherwise they shut their doors. Their action and inaction are matters of strategy, and they cannot be pleased or angered. [ 9 ] Maneuvering Armies CAO CAO This means choosing the most advantageous ways to go. Master Sun Whenever you station an army to observe an opponent, cut off the mountains and stay by the valleys. LI QUAN Cutting off the mountains means guarding the defiles, and staying by the valleys means being close to water and fodder. Master Sun Watch the light, stay on the heights. When fighting on a hill, do not climb.