For more information please visit www.shambhala.com. Excerpt from The Complete Book of Five Rings translated by Kenji Tokitsu eISBN 978-0-8348-2199-6 Writings on the Five Elements (Gorin no sho) THE SCROLL OF EARTH School of the Two Heavens United, Niten ichi ryu,1 is the name that I give to the way of strategy.2 In this text I am going to explain for the first time what I have been studying in depth for many years. At the beginning of the tenth month of the twentieth year of Kanei [1643], I came to Mount Iwato in the Higo3 prefecture of Kyushu to write. I pay homage to heaven, I prostrate to the goddess Kannon, and I turn toward the Buddha. My name is Shinmen Musashi no kami, Fujiwara no Genshin,4 and I am a warrior, born in the prefecture of Harima.5 My life now adds up to sixty years.6 I have trained in the way of strategy since my youth, and at the age of thirteen I fought a duel for the first time. My opponent was called Arima Kihei, a sword adept of the Shinto ryu, and I defeated him. At the age of sixteen I defeated a powerful adept by the name of Akiyama, who came from the prefecture of Tajima.7 At the age of twenty-one I went up to Kyoto and fought duels with several adepts of the sword from famous schools, but I never lost. Then I traveled in several fiefs and regions in order to meet the adepts of different schools. I fought more than sixty times,8 but not once was I beaten. All that happened between my thirteenth and my twenty-eighth or twenty-ninth year. At the age of thirty I reflected, and I saw that although I had won, I had done so without having reached the ultimate level of strategy. Perhaps it was because my natural disposition prevented me from straying from universal principles; perhaps it was because my opponents lacked ability in strategy. I continued to train and to seek from morning till night to attain to a deeper principle. When I reached the age of fifty, I naturally found myself on the way of strategy. Since that day I have lived without having a need to search further for the way.9 When I apply the principle of strategy to the ways of different arts and crafts, I no longer have need for a teacher in any domain. Thus, in composing this book, I do not borrow from the ancient Buddhist or Confucianist writings; I do not use ancient examples from the chronicles or the tradition of the military art. I began writing on the tenth of the tenth month, at night, at the hour of the tiger,10 with the aim of expressing the true idea of my school, letting my mind reflect in the mirror of the way of heaven and the way of Kannon. Strategy is the practice that is necessary in warrior families.11 A person who directs warfare must learn it,