extremely rapid mental calculations.The golden boys would ace these maneuvers in no time. For Rodriguez, it wouldrequire a lot of repetition and intense focus every time he entered the cockpit. Henoticed sometimes that his body would get there ahead of his mind; his nervesand his fingers would intuit a sense of what command of the maneuver shouldfeel like; he would then consciously aim to recreate that feeling.Once this mark was passed, he would have to learn how to fly in formation,working with other pilots in an intricately coordinated team. Flying in formationmeant juggling several skills at the same time, and the complexity of it all couldbe mind-boggling. Part of him was motivated by the great excitement he felt commanding such a jet and working with the team, and part of him was alsomotivated by the challenge. He had noticed that in gaining control of the jet andthe various maneuvers, he had developed acute powers of concentration. Hecould tune everything out and immerse himself completely in the moment. Thismade every new skill set a little easier to master.Slowly, through sheer tenacity and practice, he rose to the top of his class,and was considered among the few who could serve as fighter pilots. But thereremained one last hurdle in his ascent to the top: flying in the high-scaleexercises run by all branches of the military. In this case it was a matter ofunderstanding the overall mission and operating in an intricately orchestratedland-air-sea campaign. It required an even higher level of awareness, and atmoments during these exercises Rodriguez had an odd sensation—he was nolonger focusing on the various physical elements of flying or on the individualskill components, but was thinking and feeling the overall campaign and how hefit into it in a seamless fashion. It was a sensation of mastery, and it was fleeting.He also noticed a slight gap between himself and the golden boys. They hadrelied for so long on their natural skills that they had not cultivated the samelevel of concentration that he now possessed. In many ways, he had surpassedthem. After participating in a few of these exercises, Rodriguez had risen to elitestatus.On January 19, 1991, in the space of a few minutes, all of his elaboratetraining and practice would be put to the ultimate test. A few days before, theUnited States and allied forces had launched Operation Desert Storm in responseto Sadaam Hussein’s invasion of Kuwait. The morning of the 19th Rodriguezand his wingman, Craig “Mole” Underhill, flew into Iraq as part of a thirty-six-aircraft strike force, heading toward a target near Baghdad. It was his first realtaste of combat. Flying F-15s, he and Mole quickly spotted a pair of Iraqi MiGfighters in the distance and decided to give chase. Within seconds they realizedthat they had been lured into a trap, the pursuer turning into the pursued, as twoMiGs now bore down on them from an unexpected direction.Realizing how quickly one of the enemy planes was approaching, Rodriguezsuddenly jettisoned his fuel tanks for greater speed and maneuverability. He thendove