Victor-Emmanuel's promotion.After this meeting a story about Mao's methods went the rounds of Shanghai'sremaining executive suites. Mao called in Liu [Shaoqi] and Zhou [Enlai] . He had a question for them: "How would you make a cat eat pepper?" Liu spokeup first. "That's easy," said the number-two man. "You get somebody to holdthe cat, stuff the pepper in its mouth, and push it down with a chopstick." Maoraised his hands in horror at such a made-in-Moscow solution. "Never useforce.... Everything must be voluntary." Zhou had been listening. Maoinquired what the premier would do with the cat. "I would starve the cat,"replied the man who had often walked the tightrope of opportunity. "Then Iwould wrap the pepper with a slice of meat. If the cat is sufficiently hungry itwill swallow it whole." Mao did not agree with Zhou any more than with Liu."One must not use deceit either--never fool the people." What, then would theChairman himself do? "Easy," he said--concurring with Liu at least on that."You rub the pepper thoroughly into the cat's backside. When it burns, the catwill lick it off--and be happy that it is permitted to do so."MAO: A BIOGRAPHY, ROSS TERRILL, 1999The countess's seduction of the emperor had been planned like an elaboratemilitary campaign, right down to the dresses she would wear, the words shewould say, the glances she would throw. Her discreet way of roping him in was aclassic flanking attack, a seductive manoeuvre sur les derrieres. The countess'scold beauty and fascinating manner drew the emperor on until he had advancedso far that he was convinced it was he who was the aggressor. Holding hisattention to the front, the countess worked to the side, subtly conjuring the ideaof crowning Victor-Emmanuel. Had she pursued the emperor directly orsuggested the crowning of the king in so many words, not only would she havefailed, but she would have pushed the emperor in the opposite direction. Drawnforward frontally by his weakness for a beautiful woman, he was vulnerable togentle persuasion on his flank.Maneuvers like this one should be the model for your attempts at persuasion.Never reveal your intentions or goals; instead use charm, pleasant conversation,humor, flattery--whatever works--to hold people's attention to the front. Theirfocus elsewhere, their flank is exposed, and now when you drop hints or suggestsubtle changes in direction, the gates are open and the walls are down. They aredisarmed and maneuverable.Think of people's ego and vanity as a kind of front. When they are attackingyou and you don't know why, it is often because you have inadvertentlythreatened their ego, their sense of importance in the world. Whenever possible,you must work to make people feel secure about themselves. Again, usewhatever works: subtle flattery, a gift, an unexpected promotion, an offer ofalliance, a presentation of you and they as equals, a mirroring of their ideas and values. All these things will make them feel anchored in their frontal positionrelative to the world, lowering their defenses and making them like you. Secureand comfortable, they are now set up for a flanking