CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.After crossing twenty-four rivers and eighteen mountain ranges and havingmany near misses with disaster, the army came to the end of its "Long March." It was radically reduced--it now numbered only 6,000--but a new kind of party hadbeen forged, the kind Mao had wanted all along: a hard-core group of devotedfollowers who believed in a peasant revolution and embraced guerrilla warfare.Safe from attack in Shan-hsi, this purified party was slowly able first to recover,then to spread its gospel. In 1949 the Communists finally defeated theNationalists for good and exiled them from mainland China.InterpretationMao was born and raised on a farm, and Chinese farm life could be harsh. Afarmer had to be patient, bending with the seasons and the capricious climate.Thousands of years earlier, the Taoist religion had emerged from this hard life. Akey concept in Taoism is that of wei wu--the idea of action through inaction, ofcontrolling a situation by not trying to control it, of ruling by abdicating rule. Weiwu involves the belief that by reacting and fighting against circumstances, byconstantly struggling in life, you actually move backward, creating moreturbulence in your path and difficulties for yourself. Sometimes it is best to lielow, to do nothing but let the winter pass. In such moments you can collectyourself and strengthen your identity.Growing up on a farm, Mao had internalized these ideas and applied themconstantly in politics and war. In moments of danger, when his enemies werestronger, he was not afraid to retreat, although he knew that many would see thisas a sign of weakness. Time, he knew, would show up the holes in his enemies'strategy, and he would use that time to reflect on himself and gain perspective onthe whole situation. He made his period of retreat in Hunan not a negativehumiliation but a positive strategy. Similarly, he used the Long March to forge anew identity for the Communist Party, creating a new kind of believer. Once hiswinter had passed, he reemerged--his enemies succumbing to their ownweaknesses, himself strengthened by a period of retreat.War is deceptive: you may think that you are strong and that you are makingadvances against an enemy, but time may show that you were actually marchinginto great danger. You can never really know, since our immersion in the presentdeprives us of true perspective. The best you can do is to rid yourself of lazy,conventional patterns of thinking. Advancing is not always good; retreating isnot always weak. In fact, in moments of danger or trouble, refusing to fight isoften the best strategy: by disengaging from the enemy, you lose nothing that isvaluable in the long run and gain time to turn inward, rethink your ideas,separate the true believers from the hangers-on. Time becomes your ally. Bydoing nothing outwardly, you gain inner strength, which will translate intotremendous power later, when it is time to act. Space I can recover. Time, never.--Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821)KEYS TO WARFAREThe problem we all face in strategy, and in life, is that each of us is unique andhas a