poll numbers wouldpeak. The public would have had its fill of his bland message and the right'svitriolic attacks.Sensing that moment in late September, he returned to the stage andpositioned himself clearly to Landon's left. The choice was strategic, notideological; it let him draw a sharp distinction between Landon and himself. In atime of crisis like the Depression, it was best to look resolute and strong, to standfor something firm, to oppose a clear enemy. The attacks from the right gave himthat clear enemy, while Landon's milquetoast posturing made him look strong bycontrast. Either way he won. Of course this beautiful simplicity of strategic movement, with its infiniteflexibility, is extremely deceptive. The task of correlating and coordinating thedaily movements of a dozen or more major formations, all moving alongseparate routes, of ensuring that every component is within one or, at most,two days' marching distance of its immediate neighbors, and yet at the sametime preserving the appearance of an arbitrary and ill-coordinated "scatter"of large units in order to deceive the foe concerning the true gravity of hissituation--this is the work of a mathematical mind of no common caliber. It isin fact the hallmark of genius--that "infinite capacity for taking pains."...Theultimate aim of all this carefully considered activity was to produce thegreatest possible number of men on the battlefield, which on occasion hadbeen chosen months in advance of the actual event. Bourienne gives hiscelebrated...eyewitness account of the First Consul, in the early days of theItalian Campaign of 1800, lying full-length on the floor, pushing colored pinsinto his maps, and saying, "I shall fight him here--on the plain of the Scrivia,"with that uncanny prescience which was in reality the product of mentalcalculations of computer-like complexity. After considering every possiblecourse of action open to the Austrian Melas, Bonaparte eliminated them oneby one, made allowance for the effect of chance on events, and came up withthe answer--subsequently borne out by the events of June 14 on the field ofMarengo, which lies, surely enough, on the plain bounded by the riversBormida and Scrivia.THE CAMPAIGNS OF NAPOLEON, DAVID G. CHANDLER, 1966Now Landon was presented with a dilemma. If he kept going with hiscentrist appeal, he would bore the public and seem weak. If he moved to theright--the choice he actually took--he would be inconsistent and look desperate.This was pure maneuver warfare: Begin by taking a position of strength--inRoosevelt's case his initial, presidential, bipartisan pose--that leaves you withopen options and room to maneuver. Then let your enemies show their direction.Once they commit to a position, let them hold it--in fact, let them trumpet it.Now that they are fixed in place, maneuver to the side that will crowd them,leaving them only bad options. By waiting to make this maneuver until the lastsix weeks of the presidential race, Roosevelt both denied the Republicans anytime to adjust and kept his own strident appeal from wearing thin.Everything is political in the world today, and politics is all aboutpositioning. In any political battle, the best way to stake out a position is to drawa