had the impression that she was simplyrepeating the same talk over and over, with the same slides, as if she were amachine.Strangely enough, none of this bothered Temple. In fact, the idea of these Strangely enough, none of this bothered Temple. In fact, the idea of theseevaluations excited her. They gave her a clear and realistic picture of herself asothers saw her, and that is all she ever needed for self-correction. She pursuedthis process with great zeal, determined to transform herself into a skilledlecturer. As enough evaluations came in, she pored over them, looking forpatterns and criticisms that made sense. Working from this feedback, she taughtherself to mix in anecdotes and even jokes, and to make her slides not so logicaland tight. She shortened the length of her talks, trained herself to speak withoutnotes, and made sure to take as many questions as the audience wanted to ask atthe end.For those who had seen her initial efforts and then attended her lectures yearslater, it was hard to believe she was the same person. She was now anentertaining and engaging speaker, one who could hold the attention of anaudience better than most. They could not imagine how this had come about,which made her transformation seem all the more miraculous. Almost all of us have social flaws of some sort, ranging from the relativelyharmless to those that can get us in trouble. Perhaps it could be that we talk toomuch, or are too honest in our criticisms of people, or take offense too easilywhen others do not respond positively to our ideas. If we repeat instances ofsuch behavior often enough, we tend to offend people without ever reallyknowing why. The reason for this is twofold: first, we are quick to discern themistakes and defects of others, but when it comes to ourselves we are generallytoo emotional and insecure to look squarely at our own. Second, people rarelytell us the truth about what it is that we do wrong. They are afraid to causeconflict or to be viewed as mean-spirited. And so it becomes very difficult for usto perceive our flaws, let alone correct them.We sometimes have the experience of doing work that we consider to bequite brilliant, and then are rather shocked when we receive feedback fromothers who do not see it the same way at all. In such moments we are madeaware of the discrepancy between our emotional and subjective relationship toour own work, and the response of others who view it with completedetachment, capable of pointing out flaws we could never see. The samediscrepancy, however, exists on the social level. People see our behavior fromthe outside, and their view of us is never what we imagine it to be. To have thepower to see ourselves through the eyes of others would be of immense benefitto our social intelligence. We could begin to correct the flaws that offend, to seethe role that we play in creating any kind of negative dynamic, and to have a more realistic assessment of who we