was on tosomething, but that he would need some more research. For Leonardo da Vinci,as he progressed in his studio work for Verrocchio, he began to experiment andto assert his own style. He found to his surprise that the Master was impressedwith his inventiveness. For Leonardo, this indicated that he was near the end ofhis apprenticeship.Most people wait too long to take this step, generally out of fear. It is alwayseasier to learn the rules and stay within your comfort zone. Often you must forceyourself to initiate such actions or experiments before you think you are ready.You are testing your character, moving past your fears, and developing a senseof detachment to your work—looking at it through the eyes of others. You aregetting a taste for the next phase in which what you produce will be underconstant scrutiny.You will know when your apprenticeship is over by the feeling that you havenothing left to learn in this environment. It is time to declare your independenceor move to another place to continue your apprenticeship and expand your skillbase. Later in life, when you are confronted with a career change or the need tolearn new skills, having gone through this process before, it will become secondnature. You have learned how to learn. Many people might find the notion of an apprenticeship and skill acquisition asquaint relics of bygone eras when work meant making things. After all, we haveentered the information and computer age, in which technology makes it so wecan do without the kinds of menial tasks that require practice and repetition; somany things have become virtual in our lives, making the craftsman modelobsolete. Or so the argument goes.In truth, however, this idea of the nature of the times we are living in iscompletely incorrect, even dangerous. The era we have entered is not one in completely incorrect, even dangerous. The era we have entered is not one inwhich technology will make everything easier, but rather a time of increasedcomplexity that affects every field. In business, competition has becomeglobalized and more intense. A businessperson must have a command of a muchlarger picture than in the past, which means more knowledge and skills. Thefuture in science does not lie in increased specialization, but rather in thecombining and cross-fertilization of knowledge in various fields. In the arts,tastes and styles are changing at an accelerated rate. An artist must be on top ofthis and be capable of creating new forms, always remaining ahead of the curve.This often requires having more than just a specialized knowledge of thatparticular art form—it requires knowing other arts, even the sciences, and whatis happening in the world.In all of these areas, the human brain is asked to do and handle more thanever before. We are dealing with several fields of knowledge constantlyintersecting with our own, and all of this chaos is exponentially increased by theinformation available through technology. What this means is that all of us mustpossess different forms of knowledge and an array of skills in different fields,and have minds that