he caught them offguard. Lawrence's subsequent capture of Aqaba was a masterpiece of economy:only two men died, on his side. (Compare this to the unsuccessful Britishattempt to take Gaza from the Turks that same year in head-on battle, in whichover three thousand British soldiers were killed.) The capture of Aqaba was theturning point in Britain's eventual defeat of the Turks in the Middle East.The greatest power you can have in any conflict is the ability to confuse youropponent about your intentions. Confused opponents do not know how or whereto defend themselves; hit them with a surprise attack and they are pushed offbalance and fall. To accomplish this you must maneuver with just one purpose:to keep them guessing. You get them to chase you in circles; you say theopposite of what you mean to do; you threaten one area while shooting foranother. You create maximum disorder. But to pull this off, you need room tomaneuver. If you crowd yourself with alliances that force your hand, if you takepositions that box you into corners, if you commit yourself to defending onefixed position, you lose the power of maneuver. You become predictable. Youare like the British and the Turks, moving in straight lines in defined areas,ignoring the vast desert around you. People who fight this way deserve thebloody battles they face. 4. Early in 1937, Harry Cohn, longtime chief of Columbia Pictures, faced acrisis. His most successful director, Frank Capra, had just left the studio, and profits were down. Cohn needed a hit and a replacement for Capra. And hebelieved he had found the right formula with a comedy called The Awful Truthand a thirty-nine-year-old director named Leo McCarey. McCarey had directedDuck Soup, with the Marx Brothers, and Ruggles of Red Gap, with CharlesLaughton, two different but successful comedies. Cohn offered McCarey TheAwful Truth.McCarey said he did not like the script, but he would do the picture anywayfor a hundred thousand dollars--a huge sum in 1937 dollars. Cohn, who ranColumbia like Mussolini (in fact, he kept a picture of Il Duce in his office),exploded at the price. McCarey got up to go, but as he was leaving, he noticedthe producer's office piano. McCarey was a frustrated songwriter. He sat downand began to play a show tune. Cohn had a weakness for such music, and he wasentranced: "Anybody who likes music like that has got to be a talented man," hesaid. "I'll pay that exorbitant fee. Report to work tomorrow."Expanding on the issue of directive control, Lind introduces the reader to adecision-making model known as the Boyd cycle. Named for Col. John Boyd,the term refers to the understanding that war consists of the repeated cycle ofobservation, orientation, decision, and action. Colonel Boyd constructed hismodel as a result of his observations of fighter combat in the Korean War. Hehad been investigating why American fighter pilots had been consistentlyable to best enemy pilots in dogfights. His analysis of opposing aircraft led tosome startling discoveries. Enemy fighters typically outperformed theirAmerican counterparts in speed, climb, and turning ability.