soon bow her head, Taken and ravaged under our hands." THE ILIAD, HOMER, CIRCA NINTH CENTURY B.C.Understand: the future belongs to groups that are fluid, fast, and nonlinear.Your natural tendency as a leader may be to want to control the group, tocoordinate its every movement, but that will just tie you to the past and to theslow-moving armies of history. It takes strength of character to allow for amargin of chaos and uncertainty--to let go a little--but by decentralizing yourarmy and segmenting it into teams, you will gain in mobility what you lose incomplete control. And mobility is the greatest force multiplier of them all. Itallows you to both disperse and concentrate your army, throwing it into patternsinstead of advancing in straight lines. These patterns will confuse and paralyzeyour opponents. Give your different corps clear missions that fit your strategicgoals, then let them accomplish them as they see fit. Smaller teams are faster,more creative, more adaptable; their officers and soldiers are more engaged,more motivated. In the end, fluidity will bring you far more power and controlthan petty domination.Separate to live, unite to fight.--Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821)KEYS TO WARFAREThe world is full of people looking for a secret formula for success and power.They do not want to think on their own; they just want a recipe to follow. Theyare attracted to the idea of strategy for that very reason. In their minds strategy isa series of steps to be followed toward a goal. They want these steps spelled outfor them by an expert or a guru. Believing in the power of imitation, they want toknow exactly what some great person has done before. Their maneuvers in lifeare as mechanical as their thinking.To separate yourself from such a crowd, you need to get rid of a commonmisconception: the essence of strategy is not to carry out a brilliant plan thatproceeds in steps; it is to put yourself in situations where you have more optionsthan the enemy does. Instead of grasping at Option A as the single right answer,true strategy is positioning yourself to be able to do A, B, or C depending on the circumstances. That is strategic depth of thinking, as opposed to formulaicthinking.Sun-tzu expressed this idea differently: what you aim for in strategy, he said,is shih, a position of potential force--the position of a boulder perchedprecariously on a hilltop, say, or of a bowstring stretched taut. A tap on theboulder, the release of the bowstring, and potential force is violently unleashed.The boulder or arrow can go in any direction; it is geared to the actions of theenemy. What matters is not following pre-ordained steps but placing yourself inshih and giving yourself options.Napoleon was probably unaware of Sun-tzu's concept of shih, yet he hadperhaps history's greatest understanding of it. Once he had positioned his sevencorps in their seemingly chaotic pattern along the Rhine and his reserve forces inthe Black Forest, he was in shih. Wherever Mack turned, whatever he did, theAustrians were doomed. Napoleon had endless options while Mack had only afew,