that divisions ofNapoleon's army, which they had believed was dispersed, had marched east,merged, and was massing deep in southern Prussia. The captain who had led thescouting mission reported that the French soldiers were marching with packs ontheir backs: where the Prussians used slow-moving wagons to provision theirtroops, the French carried their own supplies and moved with astonishing speedand mobility.Before the generals had time to adjust their plans, Napoleon's army suddenlywheeled north, heading straight for Berlin, the heart of Prussia. The generalsargued and dithered, moving their troops here and there, trying to decide whereto attack. A mood of panic set in. Finally the king ordered a retreat: the troopswould reassemble to the north and attack Napoleon's flank as he advancedtoward Berlin. Hohenlohe was in charge of the rear guard, protecting thePrussians' retreat.On October 14, near the town of Jena, Napoleon caught up with Hohenlohe,who finally faced the battle he had wanted so desperately. The numbers on bothsides were equal, but while the French were an unruly force, fighting pell-melland on the run, Hohenlohe kept his troops in tight order, orchestrating them likea corps de ballet. The fighting went back and forth until finally the Frenchcaptured the village of Vierzehnheiligen.Hohenlohe ordered his troops to retake the village. In a ritual dating back toFrederick the Great, a drum major beat out a cadence and the Prussian soldiers,their colors flying, reformed their positions in perfect parade order, preparing toadvance. They were in an open plain, though, and Napoleon's men were behindgarden walls and on the house roofs. The Prussians fell like ninepins to theFrench marksmen. Confused, Hohenlohe ordered his soldiers to halt and changeformation. The drums beat again, the Prussians marched with magnificentprecision, always a sight to behold--but the French kept shooting, decimating thePrussian line.Never had Hohenlohe seen such an army. The French soldiers were likedemons. Unlike his disciplined soldiers, they moved on their own, yet there wasmethod to their madness. Suddenly, as if from nowhere, they rushed forward onboth sides, threatening to surround the Prussians. The prince ordered a retreat.The Battle of Jena was over. Like a house of cards, the Prussians quickly crumbled, one fortress fallingafter another. The king fled east. In a matter of days, virtually nothing remainedof the once mighty Prussian army.THE BAT AND THE HOUSE-FERRETSA bat fell to the ground and was caught by a house-ferret. Realizing that shewas on the point of being killed, she begged for her life. The house-ferret saidto her that she couldn't let her go, for ferrets were supposed to be naturalenemies to all birds. The bat replied that she herself was not a bird, but amouse. She managed to extricate herself from her danger by this means.Eventually, falling a second time, the bat was caught by another house-ferret.Again she pleaded to the ferret not to eat her. The second ferret declared thatshe absolutely detested all mice. But the bat positively affirmed that she wasnot a mouse but a bat. And so she was released again. And that was how shesaved herself from death