former Afghan leader forcedout of power twenty-five years earlier--who would then be indebted to theEnglish.He who knows the enemy and himself Will never in a hundred battles be atrisk. SUN-TZU, FOURTH CENTURY B.C.[As to the second case] , that of being drawn into one [a trap or ambush] ...you must be shrewd about not believing easily things not in accord withreason. For example, if the enemy puts some booty before you, you ought tobelieve that within it there is a hook and that it conceals some trick. If manyof the enemy are put to flight by your few, if a few of the enemy assail yourmany, if the enemy turn in sudden flight,...you ought to fear a trick. And youshould never believe that the enemy does not know how to carry on hisaffairs; rather, if you hope to be less deceived...and...run less risk, inproportion as your enemy is weaker, in proportion as he is less cautious, youshould the more respect him.THE ART OF WAR, NICCOLO MACHIAVELLI, 1521Among the men listening to Auckland that day was William Macnaghten,the forty-five-year-old chief secretary of the Calcutta government. Macnaghtenthought the invasion a brilliant idea: a friendly Afghanistan would secure Britishinterests in the area and even help to spread British influence. And the invasioncould hardly fail. The British army would have no trouble sweeping away theprimitive Afghan tribesmen; they would present themselves as liberators, freeingthe Afghans from Russian tyranny and bringing to the country the support andcivilizing influence of England. As soon as Shah Soojah was in power, the armywould leave, so that British influence over the grateful shah, although powerful,would be invisible to the Afghan public. When it came time for Macnaghten togive his opinion on the proposed invasion, his support of it was so sound andenthusiastic that Lord Auckland not only decided to go ahead, he namedMacnaghten the queen's envoy to Kabul, the Afghan capital--the top Britishrepresentative in Afghanistan.Meeting little resistance along the way, in August 1839 the British armyreached Kabul. Dost Mahomed fled to the mountains, and the shah reentered thecity. To the local inhabitants, this was a strange sight: Shah Soojah, whom manycould barely remember, looked old and submissive alongside Macnaghten, whorode into Kabul wearing a bright-colored uniform topped by a cocked hat fringedwith ostrich feathers. Why had these people come? What were they doing here?With the shah back in power, Macnaghten had to reassess the situation.Reports came in informing him that Dost Mahomed was building an army in themountains to the north. Meanwhile, to the south, it seemed that in invading thecountry the British had insulted some local chieftains by plundering their landsfor food. These chiefs were now stirring up trouble. It was also clear that theshah was unpopular with his former subjects, so unpopular that Macnaghtencould not leave him and other British interests in the country unprotected.Reluctantly Macnaghten ordered most of the British army to remain in Afghanistan until the situation was stabilized.Time went by, and eventually Macnaghten decided to allow the officers andsoldiers of this increasingly long-standing occupying