reading list books about birds, which he now began toobserve and study. And the more he read, the more he had the strange sensationthat he and his brother could actually be the ones to win such a race.At first glance this would seem an absurd idea. The men in the field were allexperts with incredible technical knowledge, some with impressive collegedegrees. They had an enormous head start over the Wright brothers. Designingand building a flying machine was an expensive venture that could totalthousands of dollars and lead to yet another crash. The favorite to win the racewas Samuel Langley, the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, who had anenormous government grant to pursue his work and had already successfullyflown a steam-powered, unmanned model. The brothers came from a modestbackground, and the only money they had was the slender profits from theirbicycle shop. But what all of these men lacked, in Wilbur’s mind, was somebasic common sense when it came to any kind of machine.These aviators had begun with the premise that what mattered was to get themachine in the air using a powerful engine of some sort, figuring the rest outonce flight had been achieved. Getting in the air would impress the public, gainattention, and attract financial backing. This led to many crashes, constantredesigns, the search for the perfect engine, new materials, and more crashes.They were getting nowhere, and the reason was simple. As Wilbur knew, the keyto building anything right is repetition. It was only by getting their hands onbicycles, fiddling and tinkering with them, then riding them and gaining a feelfor what worked, that the brothers had been able to design a superior variety ofbicycle. Because the designers of the flying machines could not fly for more thana minute, they were locked into a vicious cycle—they were never airborne longenough to learn how to fly and properly test out their designs, or get a feel forwhat might work. They were doomed to failure.Wilbur discovered another great flaw in their thinking that shocked him: theyall overvalued the importance of stability. They thought in terms of a shipfloating through the air. A ship is designed to maintain balance, and to move inas stable and straight a manner as possible; tipping from side to side is far toodangerous. Based on this analogy, they decided to design the wings of theirflying machines in a slight V shape, to compensate for any sudden gusts of windand to keep the cruising aircraft in a straight line. But Wilbur felt that thinking interms of ships was the wrong analogy. Instead, it was far wiser to think in termsof a bicycle. A bicycle is inherently unstable. It is the rider who learns quicklyenough how to keep the bike in a secure position, and to steer it properly by enough how to keep the bike in a secure position, and to steer it properly byleaning to the side. A pilot of a flying machine, as he imagined it, should be ableto safely bank and turn, or tilt up