on the things hehated the most. His criticisms were brutal. One day, however, as he was flyingthe T-38, Rodriguez had a strange and wonderful sensation—it seemed like hecould feel the plane itself at the edge of his fingertips. This is how it must be forthe golden boys, he thought, only for him it had taken nearly ten months ofintense training. His mind no longer felt mired in all of the details. It was vague,but he could sense the possibility of a higher way of thinking—seeing the largerpicture of flying in formation, while also commanding the complex operations inthe cockpit. This sensation would come and go, but the feeling made all of thework worthwhile.In the end Rodriguez graduated third in his class, and was promoted tofighter-pilot lead-in training. The same process would now repeat itself in an fighter-pilot lead-in training. The same process would now repeat itself in aneven more competitive environment. He would have to outdo the golden boysthrough practice and sheer determination. In this manner, he slowly rose throughthe ranks to become a colonel in the U.S. Air Force. During the 1990s, his threeair-to-air kills in active duty brought him closer to the designation of ace thanany American pilot since the Vietnam War, and earned him the nickname theLast American Ace. What separates Masters from others is often something surprisingly simple.Whenever we learn a skill, we frequently reach a point of frustration—what weare learning seems beyond our capabilities. Giving in to these feelings, weunconsciously quit on ourselves before we actually give up. Among the dozensof pilots in Rodriguez’s class who never made the cut, almost all of them had thesame talent level as he did. The difference is not simply a matter ofdetermination, but more of trust and faith. Many of those who succeed in lifehave had the experience in their youth of having mastered some skill—a sport orgame, a musical instrument, a foreign language, and so on. Buried in their mindsis the sensation of overcoming their frustrations and entering the cycle ofaccelerated returns. In moments of doubt in the present, the memory of the pastexperience rises to the surface. Filled with trust in the process, they trudge onwell past the point at which others slow down or mentally quit.When it comes to mastering a skill, time is the magic ingredient. Assumingyour practice proceeds at a steady level, over days and weeks certain elements ofthe skill become hardwired. Slowly, the entire skill becomes internalized, part ofyour nervous system. The mind is no longer mired in the details, but can see thelarger picture. It is a miraculous sensation and practice will lead you to thatpoint, no matter the talent level you are born with. The only real impediment tothis is yourself and your emotions—boredom, panic, frustration, insecurity. Youcannot suppress such emotions—they are normal to the process and areexperienced by everyone, including Masters. What you can do is have faith inthe process. The boredom will go away once you enter the cycle. The panicdisappears after repeated exposure. The frustration is a