she would see continualthreats in the environment. Cattle, as prey species, were continually on guardand anxious. Perhaps her own enlarged fear center, she reasoned, was athrowback to the deep past, when humans were prey as well. These reactions arenow largely blocked or hidden to us, but because of her autism, her brain hadretained this ancient trait. She noticed other similarities between cattle andpeople with autism, such as the dependence on habit and routine.Thinking in this way led her back to her early interest in the psychologybehind autism, and to deepening studies of the neuroscience involved. Hercondition as someone who had emerged from autism to a career in science gaveher a unique perspective on the subject. As she had done with animals, she couldexplore it both from the outside (science) and the inside (empathy). She couldread about the latest discoveries on autism and relate them to her ownexperiences. She could illuminate aspects of the condition that no other scientistwas able to describe or understand. As she delved deeply into the subject andwrote books on her experiences, she quickly became an extremely popularconsultant and lecturer on the subject, as well as a role model for young peoplewith autism.As she looks back on her life from the present, Temple Grandin has a strangesensation. She emerged from the darkness and chaos of her earliest years of autism, her mind partially guided out of it by her love of animals and hercuriosity about their inner lives. Through her experience on her aunt’s ranchwith cattle, she became interested in science, which then opened her mind tostudying autism itself. Returning to animals for her career, through science anddeep observation, she made innovative designs and unique discoveries. Thesediscoveries led her back to autism yet again, a field to which she could nowapply her scientific training and thinking. It would appear that some form ofdestiny kept directing her to the particular fields that she could explore andunderstand with single-minded purpose, and master in her own ingenious way. For someone like Temple Grandin, the possibility of achieving mastery in anyfield would normally seem like an impossible dream. The obstacles in the pathof someone with autism are enormous. And yet she managed to find her way tothe two subjects that opened up possibilities for advancement. Although it mightseem as if luck or blind fate led her there, even as a child she intuited her naturalstrengths—her love and feel for animals, her visual powers of thinking, herability to focus on one thing—and leaned on them with all of her energy.Moving with these strengths gave her both the desire and resiliency to put upwith all of the doubters, all those who saw her as strange and different and whofound the subject matters she chose to study too unconventional. Working in afield where she could use her natural empathy and her particular way of thinkingto great effect, she was able to delve deeper and deeper into her chosen subject,arriving at a powerful inside sense of the world of animals. Once she hadmastery in this