get them to where Imyself was going to that end-station of glory which climbers desperately wantto reach....THE SECRET LIFE OF SALVADOR DALI, SALVADOR DALI, 1942Murray later wrote about the incident and incorporated what it had taughthim into his training of other family therapists. He considered it the turning pointin his career. InterpretationBowen's strategy in the experiment he conducted on his family was simple: hewould make it impossible for any family member to make him take sides orhook him into any kind of alliance. He would also deliberately cause anemotional tempest to break up the stale family dynamic, particularly targetingJune and his mother, that dynamic's centrifugal forces. He would make hisfamily see things anew by getting them to talk about personal matters rather thanavoiding them. He would work on himself to stay calm and rational, squelchingany desire either to please or to run away from confrontation.And in the midst of this experiment, Bowen experienced an unbelievablefeeling of lightness--a near euphoria. For the first time in his life, he feltconnected to the family without being submerged by its emotional pulls. Hecould engage, argue, and banter without either regressing into childish tantrumsor striving to be falsely agreeable. The more he dealt with the family this way,the easier it became.Bowen also noticed the effect his behavior had on others. First, they couldnot interact in their usual way: June could not avoid him, his weak sister couldnot internalize all the family's problems, the mother could not use him as acrutch. Next, they found themselves drawn to him. His refusal to take sides madeit easier to open up to him. The stale family dynamic of gossip, secretcommunications, and irritating alliances was broken up in one visit. And,according to Bowen, it stayed that way for the rest of his life.Bowen transferred his theory and practice beyond the family. He thoughtabout his workplace, which had a family-like group ego and emotional systemthat infected him every time he was there: people would pull him into alliances,criticize absent colleagues, make it impossible for him to stay detached.Avoiding these conversations solved nothing; it meant he was still affected bythe group dynamic, just unable to deal with it. Listening patiently to people'sgossip while wishing they would stop was equally frustrating. Bowen had to takesome kind of action to disrupt the dynamic--and he found he could apply thesame tactics he had used on his family, to great success. He purposefully stirredthings up while staying free of alliances. And, as with his family, he noticed thetremendous power his autonomy gave him in the group.No one can get far in life without allies. The trick, however, is to recognizethe difference between false allies and real ones. A false alliance is created out ofan immediate emotional need. It requires that you give up something essentialabout yourself and makes it impossible for you to make your own decisions. Atrue alliance is formed out of mutual self-interest, each side supplying what theother cannot get alone. It does not require you to fuse your own identity with that of