and guidance.Japan's great seventeenth-century swordsman Miyamoto Musashi on severaloccasions faced bands of warriors determined to kill him. The sight of such agroup would intimidate most people, or at least make them hesitate--a fatal flawin a samurai. Another tendency would be to lash out violently, trying to kill asmany of the attackers as possible all at once, but at the risk of losing control ofthe situation. Musashi, however, was above all else a strategist, and he solvedthese dilemmas in the most rational way possible. He would place himself sothat the men would have to come at him in a line or at an angle. Then he wouldfocus on killing the first man and move swiftly down the line. Instead of beingoverwhelmed or trying too hard, he would break the band into parts. Then he justhad to kill opponent number one, while leaving himself in position to deal withopponent number two and preventing his mind from being clouded and confusedby the other attackers awaiting him. The effect was that he could retain his focuswhile keeping his opponents off balance, for as he proceeded down the line, theywould become the ones who were intimidated and flustered.Whether you are beset by many small problems or by one giant problem,make Musashi the model for your mental process. If you let the complexity ofthe situation confuse you and either hesitate or lash out without thought, you will lose mental control, which will only add momentum to the negative forcecoming at you. Always divide up the issue at hand, first placing yourself in acentral position, then proceeding down the line, killing off your problems one byone. It is often wise to begin with the smallest problem while keeping the mostdangerous one at bay. Solving that one will help you create momentum, bothphysical and psychological, that will help you overwhelm all the rest.The most important thing is to move quickly against your enemies, as theAthenians did at Marathon. Waiting for troubles to come to you will onlymultiply them and give them a deadly momentum. REVERSALDividing your forces as a way of creating mobility can be a powerful strategy, asNapoleon demonstrated with his flexible system of corps, which let him hit hisenemy unpredictably from many different angles. But to make his system work,Napoleon needed precise coordination of its parts and overall control over theirmovements--and his goal was ultimately to bring the parts together to strike amajor blow. In guerrilla warfare a commander will disperse his forces to make them harder to hit, but this, too, demands coordination: a guerrilla army cannotsucceed if the parts are unable to communicate with each other. In general, anydivision of your forces must be temporary, strategic, and controlled.THE PLOUGHMAN'S QUARRELSOME SONSA ploughman's sons were always quarrelling. He scolded them to no avail--his words did nothing to change their ways. So he decided to teach them apractical lesson. He asked them to bring him a load of firewood. As soon asthey had done this he gave a bundle to each and told them to break