film directors coddling them, discussing in detail thecharacters they were to play and how to get into the role. Hitchcock did none ofthis. In rehearsals he said very little; on the set, too, actors would glance over athim for his approval only to find him napping or looking bored. According to theactress Thelma Ritter, "If Hitchcock liked what you did, he said nothing. If hedidn't, he looked like he was going to throw up." And yet somehow, in his ownindirect way, he would get his actors to do precisely what he wanted.The most superficial way of trying to influence others is through talk that hasnothing real behind it. The influence produced by such mere tongue waggingmust necessarily remain insignificant. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.On the first day of shooting for The 39 Steps in 1935, Hitchcock's two leads,Madeleine Carroll and Robert Donat, arrived on the set a little tense. That daythey were to act in one of the movie's more complex scenes: playing relativestrangers who, however, had gotten handcuffed together earlier in the plot and,still handcuffed, were forced to run through the Scottish countryside (actually asound stage) to escape the film's villains. Hitchcock had given them no real signof how he wanted them to act the scene. Carroll in particular was bothered by thedirector's behavior. This English actress, one of the most elegant film stars of theperiod, had spent much of her career in Hollywood, where directors had treatedher like royalty; Hitchcock, on the other hand, was distant, hard to figure out.She had decided to play the scene with an air of dignity and reserve, the way shethought a lady would respond to the situation of being handcuffed to a strangeman. To get over her nervousness, she chatted warmly with Donat, trying to putboth him and herself in a collaborative mood.When Hitchcock arrived on set, he explained the scene to the two actors,snapped a pair of handcuffs on them, and proceeded to lead them through the set,across a dummy bridge and among other props. Then, in the middle of thisdemonstration, he was suddenly called away to attend to a technical matter. Hewould return soon; they should take a break. He felt in his pockets for the key tothe handcuffs--but no, he must have mislaid it, and off he hurried, ostensibly tofind the key. Hours went by. Donat and Carroll became increasingly frustratedand embarrassed; suddenly they had no control, a most unusual feeling for twostars on set. While even the humblest crew members were free to go about theirbusiness, the two stars were shackled together. Their forced intimacy anddiscomfort made their earlier banter impossible. They could not even go to thebathroom. It was humiliating.Hitchcock returned in the afternoon--he had found the key. Shooting began,but as the actors went to work, it was hard for them to get over the experience ofthat day; the movie stars' usual cool unflappability was gone. Carroll hadforgotten all her ideas about how to play the scene. And yet, despite her andDonat's anger, the