their tracks, making them divide their forces totake care of the possible dangers. Finally Jackson attacked boldly one more time.He did not have nearly enough men to threaten Washington, but Lincoln couldnot be sure of that. Like a conjuror, Jackson created a bogeyman out of an armythat in essence was laughably small.You must take control over people's perceptions of you by playing withappearances, mystifying and misleading them. Like Jackson, it is best to mixaudacity with unpredictability and unorthodoxy and act boldly in moments ofweakness or danger. That will distract people from any holes in your armor, andthey'll be afraid there may be more to you than meets the eye. Then, if you makeyour behavior hard to read, you'll only seem more powerful, since actions thatelude interpretation attract attention, worry, and a bit of awe. In this way you willthrow people off balance and onto their heels. Kept at a distance, they will be unable to tell how far you are bluffing them. Aggressors will back off.Appearance and perception--you are not someone to mess with--will becomereality. 2. King Edward I of England was a fierce thirteenth-century warrior-king whowas determined to conquer all of the British Isles. First he battered the Welshinto submission; then he set his sights on Scotland, laying siege to towns andcastles and razing to the ground the communities that dared to resist him. He waseven more brutal with the Scots who fought back, including the famous SirWilliam Wallace: he hunted them down and had them publicly tortured andexecuted.Only one Scottish lord eluded Edward: Robert the Bruce, Earl of Carrick(1274-1329), who had somehow escaped to the remote fastness of northernScotland. So Edward captured the rebel's family and friends, killing the men andimprisoning the women in cages. Bruce remained defiant. In 1306 he hadhimself crowned Scotland's king; whatever it took, he vowed to revenge himselfon Edward and throw the English out of Scotland. Hearing this, Edward becameeven more determined to capture this final piece in his Scottish wars, but in 1307he died, before the job was done.Edward's son, now Edward II, did not share his father's lust for war. EdwardI had left the island secure. The new king did not have to worry about Scotland;England was far wealthier, and its armies were well equipped, well fed, wellpaid, and experienced. In fact, their recent wars had made them the most-fearedfighters in Europe. At any moment Edward II could field a great army againstthe Scots, whose weapons and armor were primitive. He felt confident that hecould handle Robert the Bruce.A few months into the reign of Edward II, Bruce managed to take someScottish castles held by the English and burn them to the ground. When Edwardsent forces against him, Bruce refused to fight and fled with his small army intothe forest. Edward sent more men to secure his remaining strongholds inScotland and exact revenge on Bruce, but now Scots soldiers suddenly began toraid England. Highly mobile, these pirates on horseback devastated the northernEnglish countryside, destroying crops and livestock. The English campaign inScotland