many andmaking havoc of their lines. From out of nowhere, a reserve force rushedforward, fanning around the circle and doubling its squeezing power. Durnfordtried to maintain order, but it was too late: in a matter of seconds, panic. Now itwas every man for himself.Durnford ran to the one gap in the encirclement and tried to keep it open sothat his remaining men could retreat to Rorke's Drift. Minutes later he wasimpaled by a Zulu spear. Soon the battle at Isandlwana was over. A few hundredmanaged to escape through the gap that Durnford had died in securing; the rest,over fourteen hundred men, were killed.After such a devastating defeat, the British forces quickly retreated out ofZululand. For the time being, the war was indeed over, but not as the British hadexpected.InterpretationA few months after the defeat at Isandlwana, the British mounted a largerinvasion and finally defeated the Zulus. But the lesson of Isandlwana remainsinstructive, particularly considering the incredible discrepancy in technology.The Zulu way of fighting had been perfected earlier in the nineteenth centuryby King Shaka Zulu, who by the 1820s had transformed what had been arelatively minor tribe into the region's greatest fighting force. Shaka invented theheavy, broad-bladed Zulu spear, the assegai, that was so devastating in battle. Heimposed a rigorous discipline, training the Zulus to advance and encircle theirenemies with machinelike precision. The circle was extremely important in Zuluculture--as a symbol of their national unity, a motif in their artwork, and theirdominant pattern in warfare. The Zulus could not fight for extended periods,since their culture required lengthy cleansing rituals after the shedding of bloodin battle. During these rituals they were completely vulnerable to attack--no Zulu could fight again, or even rejoin the tribe, until he had been cleansed. Theimmense Zulu army was also costly to maintain in the field. Once mobilized,then, the army not only had to defeat its enemies in battle, it had to annihilateevery last one of them, eliminating the possibility of a counterattack during thevulnerable cleansing period and allowing a speedy demobilization. Encirclementwas the Zulu method of obtaining this complete kind of victory.Before any battle, the Zulus would scout the terrain for places to hide. Asone looks out over the grasslands and plains of South Africa, they seem to offerwide visibility, but they often conceal ravines and gullies undetectable from anydistance. Even up close, grasses and boulders provide excellent coverage. TheZulus would move quickly to their hiding places, their feet tough as leather fromyears of running over the grasslands. They would send out scouting parties asdistractions to hide the movements of the main force.Once they emerged from their hiding place and headed into battle, the Zuluswould form what they called the "horns, chest, and loins." The chest was thecentral part of the line, which would hold and pin the enemy force. Meanwhilethe horns to either side would encircle it, moving in to the sides and rear. Oftenthe tip of one horn would stay hidden behind tall grass or boulders; when itemerged to complete the encirclement it would at