a respected notary in Florence, he managed tosecure a position for his fourteen-year-old son in the workshop of the great artistVerrocchio. For Leonardo, this was a perfect fit. Verrocchio was deeplyinfluenced by the enlightened spirit of the times, and his apprentices were taughtto approach their work with the seriousness of scientists. For instance, plastercasts of human figures would be placed about the studio with various pieces offabric draped over them. The apprentices had to learn to concentrate deeply, andrecognize the different creases and shadows that would form. They had to learnhow to reproduce them realistically. Leonardo loved learning in this way, andsoon it became apparent to Verrocchio that his young apprentice had developedan exceptional eye for detail.By 1472 Leonardo was one of Verrocchio’s top assistants, helping him onhis large-scale paintings and taking on a fair amount of responsibility. InVerrocchio’s The Baptism of Christ, Leonardo was given the task of paintingone of the two angels off to the side, and this work is now the oldest example wehave of his painting. When Verrocchio saw the results of Leonardo’s work hewas astounded. The face of the angel had a quality he had never seen before—itseemed to literally glow from within. The look on the angel’s face seemeduncannily real and expressive.Although it might have seemed like magic to Verrocchio, recent X-rays haverevealed some of the secrets to Leonardo’s early technique. The layers of painthe applied were exceptionally thin, his brush strokes invisible. He had graduallyadded more layers, each ever so slightly darker than the last. Operating in thisway, and experimenting with different pigments, he had taught himself how tocapture the delicate contours of human flesh. Because of the thin layers, anylight hitting the painting seemed to pass through the angel’s face and illuminateit from within.What this revealed was that in the six years that he had been working in thestudio, he must have applied himself to an elaborate study of the various paintsand perfected a style of layering that made everything seem delicate and lifelike,with a feeling of texture and depth. He must have also spent a great deal of timestudying the composition of human flesh itself. What this also revealed was theincredible patience of Leonardo, who must have felt a great deal of love for suchdetailed work.Over the years, after he left Verrocchio’s studio and established a name forhimself as an artist, Leonardo da Vinci developed a philosophy that would guide his artwork and, later, his scientific work as well. He noticed that other artistsgenerally started with an overall image they planned to depict, one that wouldcreate a startling or spiritual effect. His mind operated differently. He would findhimself beginning with a keen focus on details—the various shapes of noses, thepossible turnings of the mouth to indicate a mood, the veins in a hand, theintricate knots of trees. These details fascinated him. He had come to believe thatby focusing on and understanding such details he was actually getting closer tothe secret of life itself, to the work of the Creator who infused