that kept him at homefor months at a time. When he was nine years old, he suffered his first asthmaattack and nearly died. His mother, Jeanne, continuously worried about hishealth, doted on Marcel and accompanied him on his regular trips to thecountryside to convalesce.And it was on such trips that the pattern of his life became set. Often alone,he developed a passion for reading books. He loved to read about history, and hedevoured all forms of literature. His main physical outlet was taking long walksin the country, and here certain sights seemed to captivate him. He would stopand stare for hours at apple blossoms or hawthorn flowers, or at any kind ofslightly exotic plant; he found the spectacle of marching ants or spiders workingon their webs particularly compelling. He would soon add books on botany andentomology to his reading list. His closest companion in these early years washis mother, and his attachment to her soon went beyond all bounds. They lookedalike and shared similar interests in the arts. He could not stand to be away fromher for more than a day, and in the few hours in which they were separated hewould write her endless letters.In 1886 he read a book that would forever change the course of his life. Itwas an historical account of the Norman conquest of England written byAugustin Thierry. The narration of events was so vivid that Marcel felt himselftransported back in time. The writer alluded to certain timeless laws of humannature that were revealed in this story, and the possibility of uncovering suchlaws made Marcel’s head spin with excitement. Entomologists could discoverthe hidden principles that governed the behavior of insects. Could a writer do thesame with humans and their complicated nature? Captivated by Thierry’s abilityto make history come to life, it came to Marcel in a flash that this would be hisLife’s Task—to become a writer and illuminate the laws of human nature.Haunted by the sense that he would not live long, he would have to hurry thisprocess and do all that he could to develop his writing powers.At school in Paris, where he lived, Marcel impressed his classmates with hisstrangeness. He had read so much that his head was teeming with ideas; hewould talk about history, ancient Roman literature, and the social life of bees allin the same conversation. He would mix the past and the present, talking about a in the same conversation. He would mix the past and the present, talking about aRoman writer as if he were alive, or describing a friend of theirs as if he were acharacter from history. His large eyes, which a friend later compared to that of afly, would seem to bore right into the person he was talking to. In his letters tofriends, he could dissect their emotions and problems with such exactitude that itwas unnerving, but then he would direct his attention to himself as well,mercilessly exposing his own weaknesses. Despite his propensity for beingalone, he was incredibly sociable and a real charmer. He