life the new form ofdance that she had visualized. To add to the effect of newness, Graham decidedto design and sew her own costumes. These costumes, often made out of stretchmaterials, would turn the dancers into almost abstract shapes, accentuating their sharp movements. Unlike the usual fairy-tale decor that was used for ballets, hersets would be minimal and stark. The dancers would wear little makeup.Everything would be designed to set them off from the stage and make theirmovements explode.The response to her first series of performances was electrifying. The publichad never seen anything remotely like it before. Many were disgusted andrepulsed. Others found the work strangely emotional, giving dance an expressivequality they had never suspected it could possess. The work elicited extremes ofreaction, a sign of its power. Over the years, what had seemed initially so harshand ugly began to be accepted, as Martha Graham had indeed single-handedlycreated a new genre—modern dance as we know it today. To avoid this danceturning into yet another convention, she would constantly struggle to upsetpeople’s expectations, never going over old ground, and constantly changing thesubject matter of the dances, from Greek myths to Americana and depictionsfrom literature. For close to sixty years after the formation of her troupe, shecontinued to drive herself to create that feeling of newness and immediacy shehad always wanted. Perhaps the greatest impediment to human creativity is the natural decay thatsets in over time in any kind of medium or profession. In the sciences or inbusiness, a certain way of thinking or acting that once had success quicklybecomes a paradigm, an established procedure. As the years go by, people forgetthe initial reason for this paradigm and simply follow a lifeless set of techniques.In the arts, someone establishes a style that is new and vibrant, speaking to theparticular spirit of the times. It has an edge because it is so different. Soonimitators pop up everywhere. It becomes a fashion, something to conform to,even if the conformity appears to be rebellious and edgy. This can drag on forten, twenty years; it eventually becomes a cliché, pure style without any realemotion or need. Nothing in culture escapes this deadening dynamic.We may not be aware of it, but we suffer from the dead forms andconventions that clutter our culture. This problem, however, sets up atremendous opportunity for creative types, one epitomized by the example ofMartha Graham. The process goes as follows: You begin by looking inward.You have something you want to express that is unique to yourself and related toyour inclinations. You must be sure it is not something that is sparked by sometrend or fashion, but that it comes from you and is real. Perhaps it is a sound youare not hearing in music, a type of story not being told, a type of book that does not fit into the usual tidy categories. Perhaps it is even a new way of doingbusiness. Let the idea, the sound, the image take root in you. Sensing thepossibility of a new language or way of