United States was sure toget involved. He understood the need for military reform, so he bypassedgenerals with more seniority and experience and chose Marshall for the job.The appointment was a curse in disguise, for the War Department washopelessly dysfunctional. Many of its generals had monstrous egos and thepower to impose their way of doing things. Senior officers, instead of retiring,took jobs in the department, amassing power bases and fiefdoms that they dideverything they could to protect. A place of feuds, waste, communicationbreakdowns, and overlapping jobs, the department was a mess. How couldMarshall revamp the army for global war if he could not control it? How couldhe create order and efficiency?What must be the result of an operation which is but partially understood bythe commander, since it is not his own conception? I have undergone apitiable experience as prompter at headquarters, and no one has a betterappreciation of the value of such services than myself; and it is particularlyin a council of war that such a part is absurd. The greater the number and thehigher the rank of the military officers who compose the council, the moredifficult will it be to accomplish the triumph of truth and reason, howeversmall be the amount of dissent. What would have been the action of a councilof war to which Napoleon proposed the movement of Arcola, the crossing ofthe Saint-Bernard, the maneuver at Ulm, or that at Gera and Jena? The timidwould have regarded them as rash, even to madness, others would have seena thousand difficulties of execution, and all would have concurred in rejectingthem; and if, on the contrary, they had been adopted, and had been executedby any one but Napoleon, would they not certainly have proved failures?BARON ANTOINE-HENRI DE JOMINI, 1779-1869Some ten years earlier, Marshall had served as the assistant commander ofthe Infantry School at Fort Benning, Georgia, where he had trained manyofficers. Throughout his time there, he had kept a notebook in which he recordedthe names of promising young men. Soon after becoming chief of staff, Marshallbegan to retire the older officers in the War Department and replace them withthese younger men whom he had personally trained. These officers wereambitious, they shared his desire for reform, and he encouraged them to speaktheir minds and show initiative. They included men like Omar Bradley and MarkClark, who would be crucial in World War II, but no one was more important than the protege Marshall spent the most time on: Dwight D. Eisenhower.The relationship began a few days after the attack on Pearl Harbor, whenMarshall asked Eisenhower, then a colonel, to prepare a report on what shouldbe done in the Far East. The report showed Marshall that Eisenhower shared hisideas on how to run the war. For the next few months, he kept Eisenhower in theWar Plans Division and watched him closely: the two men met every day, and inthat time Eisenhower soaked up Marshall's style of leadership, his way of gettingthings done. Marshall tested Eisenhower's patience by indicating that he plannedto keep him in