the automobile business, and a giant in themaking. Henry Ford had one of those minds that was naturally attuned to the mechanical.He had the power of most great inventors—the ability to visualize the parts andhow they functioned together. If he had to describe how something worked, Fordwould inevitably take a napkin and sketch out a diagram rather than use words.With this type of intelligence, his apprenticeships on machines were easy andfast. But when it came to mass-producing his inventions, he had to confront thefact that he did not have the requisite knowledge. He needed an additionalapprenticeship in becoming a businessman and entrepreneur. Fortunately,working on machines had developed in him a kind of practical intelligence,patience, and way of solving problems that could be applied to anything.When a machine malfunctions you do not take it personally or growdespondent. It is in fact a blessing in disguise. Such malfunctions generally showyou inherent flaws and means of improvement. You simply keep tinkering untilyou get it right. The same should apply to an entrepreneurial venture. Mistakesand failures are precisely your means of education. They tell you about your owninadequacies. It is hard to find out such things from people, as they are oftenpolitical with their praise and criticisms. Your failures also permit you to see the flaws of your ideas, which are only revealed in the execution of them. You learnwhat your audience really wants, the discrepancy between your ideas and howthey affect the public. Pay close attention to the structure of your group—howyour team is organized, the degree of independence you have from the source ofcapital. These are design elements as well, and such management issues areoften hidden sources of problems.Think of it this way: There are two kinds of failure. The first comes fromnever trying out your ideas because you are afraid, or because you are waitingfor the perfect time. This kind of failure you can never learn from, and suchtimidity will destroy you. The second kind comes from a bold and venturesomespirit. If you fail in this way, the hit that you take to your reputation is greatlyoutweighed by what you learn. Repeated failure will toughen your spirit andshow you with absolute clarity how things must be done. In fact, it is a curse tohave everything go right on your first attempt. You will fail to question theelement of luck, making you think that you have the golden touch. When you doinevitably fail, it will confuse and demoralize you past the point of learning. Inany case, to apprentice as an entrepreneur you must act on your ideas as early aspossible, exposing them to the public, a part of you even hoping that you’ll fail.You have everything to gain.7. Combine the “how” and the “what”At a very early age, Santiago Calatrava (b. 1951) developed a love for drawing.He carried his pencils wherever he went. A certain paradox in drawing began toobsess him. In Valencia, Spain, where he grew up, the harsh Mediterraneansunlight would place in sharp relief the things he liked to draw—rocks,