his presence intoevery living thing and every form of matter. The bones of the hand or thecontours of human lips were as inspiring to him as any religious image. For him,painting was a quest to get at the life force that animates all things. In theprocess of doing so, he believed he could create work that was much moreemotional and visceral. And to realize this quest, he invented a series ofexercises that he followed with incredible rigor.During the day he would take endless walks through the city andcountryside, his eyes taking in all of the details of the visible world. He wouldmake himself notice something new in every familiar object that he saw. Atnight, before falling asleep, he would review all of these various objects anddetails, fixing them in his memory. He was obsessed with capturing the essenceof the human face in all of its glorious diversity. For this purpose, he would visitevery conceivable place where he could find different types of people—brothels,public houses, prisons, hospitals, prayer corners in churches, country festivals.With his notebook always at hand, he would sketch grimacing, laughing, pained,beatific, leering expressions on an incredible variety of faces. He would followpeople in the streets who had a type of face he had never seen before, or somekind of physical deformity, and would sketch them as he walked. He would fillsingle sheets of paper with dozens of different noses in profile. He seemedparticularly interested in lips, finding them just as expressive as eyes. He wouldrepeat all of these exercises at different times of the day, to make sure he couldcapture the different effects that changing light would have on the human face.For his great painting The Last Supper, his patron, the duke of Milan, grewincreasingly angry with Leonardo for the time he was taking to finish it. Itseemed that all that remained was to fill in the face of Judas, but Leonardo couldnot find an adequate model. He had taken to visiting the worst parts of Milan tofind the most perfectly villainous expression to translate onto Judas, but washaving no luck. The duke accepted his explanation, and soon enough Leonardohad found the model he wanted.He applied this same rigor to capturing bodies in motion. Part of his philosophy was that life is defined by continual movement and constant change.The artist must be able to render the sensation of dynamic movement in a stillimage. Ever since he was a young man he had been obsessed with currents ofwater, and had become quite proficient at capturing the look of waterfalls,cascades, and rushing water. With people, he would spend hours seated on theside of a street, watching pedestrians as they moved by. He would hurriedlysketch the outlines of their figures, capturing their various movements in a stop-action sequence. (He had reached the point where he could sketch withincredible rapidity.) At home, he would fill in the outlines. To develop his eyefor following movement in general, he invented a whole series of differentexercises. For instance, one day in his notebook he wrote,