But what is this voice that comesthrough so clearly in the work of the greats? It is not something we can exactlyput into words. Musicians are expressing something deep about their nature,their particular psychological makeup, even their unconscious. It comes out intheir style, their unique rhythms and phrasings. But this voice does not emergefrom just being oneself and letting loose. A person who would take up aninstrument and try to express this quality right away would only produce noise.Jazz or any other musical form is a language, with conventions and vocabulary.And so the extreme paradox is that those who impress the most with theirindividuality—John Coltrane at the top—are the ones who first completelysubmerge their character in a long apprenticeship. In Coltrane’s case, thisprocess can be broken up neatly—just over ten years of an intenseapprenticeship, followed by ten years of perhaps the most amazing creativeexplosion in modern music, up until his death.By spending so long learning structure, developing technique, and absorbingevery possible style and way of playing, Coltrane built up a vast vocabulary.Once all of this became hardwired into his nervous system, his mind could focuson higher things. At an increasingly rapid pace, he could bend all of thetechniques he had learned into something more personal. In being so open toexploring and trying things out, he could discover in a serendipitous fashionthose musical ideas that suited him. With all that he had learned and mastered,he could combine ideas and styles in unique ways. By being patient andfollowing the process, individual expression flowed out of him naturally. Hepersonalized every genre he worked in, from blues to Broadway show tunes. Hisauthentic voice—with its anxious, urgent tone—was a reflection of hisuniqueness at birth, and came to him in a lengthy, organic process. Byexpressing his deepest self and his most primal emotions, he created a visceraleffect on listeners.Understand: the greatest impediment to creativity is your impatience, thealmost inevitable desire to hurry up the process, express something, and make asplash. What happens in such a case is that you do not master the basics; youhave no real vocabulary at your disposal. What you mistake for being creative have no real vocabulary at your disposal. What you mistake for being creativeand distinctive is more likely an imitation of other people’s style, or personalrantings that do not really express anything. Audiences, however, are hard tofool. They feel the lack of rigor, the imitative quality, the urge to get attention,and they turn their backs, or give the mildest praise that quickly passes. The bestroute is to follow Coltrane and to love learning for its own sake. Anyone whowould spend ten years absorbing the techniques and conventions of their field,trying them out, mastering them, exploring and personalizing them, wouldinevitably find their authentic voice and give birth to something unique andexpressive.2. The Fact of Great YieldFor as long as he can remember, V. S. Ramachandran (b. 1951) has beenfascinated by any kind of strange phenomenon in nature. As narrated in chapter1 (see page 32), at a very young age he began