their bodies (tests thatrecord the registering of slight amounts of pain), he discovered that everythingwas normal, except when he pricked the part of the leg the patient wantedamputated. The response was through the roof. The patient was experiencingthat part of the limb as if it were too present, too intense, and this overactivesensation could only be done away with through amputation.In subsequent work he was able to locate neurological damage to the part oftheir brains that create and control our sense of body image. This damage hadoccurred at birth, or very early on. This meant that the brain could create a bodyimage in a perfectly healthy person that was highly irrational. It seemed as wellthat our sense of self is far more subjective and fluid than we had thought. If ourexperience of our own body is something constructed in the brain and can gohaywire, then perhaps our sense of self is also something of a construction or haywire, then perhaps our sense of self is also something of a construction orillusion, one that we create to suit our purposes, and one that can malfunction.The implications here go beyond neuroscience, and into the realm of philosophy. The animal world can be divided into two types—specialists and opportunists.Specialists, like hawks or eagles, have one dominant skill upon which theydepend for their survival. When they are not hunting, they can go into a mode ofcomplete relaxation. Opportunists, on the other hand, have no particularspecialty. They depend instead on their skill to sniff out any kind of opportunityin the environment and seize upon it. They are in states of constant tension andrequire continual stimulation. We humans are the ultimate opportunists in theanimal world, the least specialized of all living creatures. Our entire brain andnervous system is geared toward looking for any kind of opening. Our mostprimitive ancestors did not begin with an idea in their heads for creating a tool tohelp them in scavenging and killing. Instead they came upon a rock, perhaps onethat was unusually sharp or elongated (an anomaly), and saw in this a possibility.In picking it up and handling it, the idea came to them to use it as a tool. Thisopportunistic bent of the human mind is the source and foundation of ourcreative powers, and it is in going with this bent of the brain that we maximizethese powers.And yet when it comes to creative endeavors, so often we find people goingat them from the wrong end. This generally afflicts those who are young andinexperienced—they begin with an ambitious goal, a business, or an invention ora problem they want to solve. This seems to promise money and attention. Theythen search for ways to reach that goal. Such a search could go in thousands ofdirections, each of which could pan out in its own way, but in which they couldalso easily end up exhausting themselves and never find the key to reaching theiroverarching goal. There are too many variables that go into success. The moreexperienced, wiser types, such as Ramachandran, are