their experiences, and that their so-called intuitive powers arenothing more than extended forms of normal thinking, based on superiorknowledge.The reason for this overall disregard is simple: we humans have come torecognize only one form of thinking and intelligence—rationality. Rationalthinking is sequential by nature. We see a phenomenon A, and we deduce acause B, and maybe anticipate a reaction C. In all cases of rational thinking, wecan reconstruct the various steps that were taken to arrive at some kind of conclusion or answer. This form of thinking is extremely effective and hasbrought us great powers. We developed it to help make sense of our world and togain some control over it. The process that people go through when they arriveat an answer through rational analysis can generally be examined and verified,which is why we esteem it so highly. We prefer things that can be reduced to aformula and described in precise words. But the types of intuitions discussed byvarious Masters cannot be reduced to a formula, and the steps they took to arriveat them cannot be reconstructed. We cannot go inside the mind of AlbertEinstein and experience his sudden grasp of the nature of the relativity of time.And because we recognize rationality as the only legitimate form of intelligence,these experiences of “seeing more” must either be forms of rational thinking thatjust happen faster, or are simply miraculous by nature.The problem we are facing here is that high-level intuition, the ultimate signof mastery, involves a process that is qualitatively different from rationality, butis even more accurate and perceptive. It accesses deeper parts of reality. It is ahighly legitimate type of intelligence, but one that has to be understood in itsown right. And in understanding it, we can begin to see that such power is notmiraculous, but intrinsically human and accessible to us all.Let us try to make sense of this form of thinking by examining how it mightoperate in two very different forms of knowledge—the life sciences and warfare.If we were to study a particular animal in order to understand it, we wouldbreak up our analysis into several parts. We would study its various organs,brain, and anatomical structure in order to see how it has adapted differentlyfrom other animals to its environment. We would study its behavior patterns,how it gathers food, and its mating rituals. We would look at how it functionswithin an ecosystem. In this way, we would be able to piece together an accuratepicture of this animal, covering it from all angles. With warfare, we would gothrough a similar process, breaking it up into parts—field maneuvers, weaponry,logistics, strategy. Having deep knowledge of these subjects, we could analyzethe results of a battle and come to some interesting conclusions; or, with somefield experience, we could lead an army into battle and do an effective job.In taking these analyses as far as possible, however, something is inevitablymissing. An animal is not merely the sum of its parts that we can understand byadding them up. It has its own experience and emotions, which play