actions, the deeds that can be seen and measured,the maneuvers they have used to gain power. What people say about themselvesdoes not matter; people will say anything. Look at what they have done; deedsdo not lie. You must also apply this logic to yourself. In looking back at a defeat,you must identify the things you could have done differently. It is your own badstrategies, not the unfair opponent, that are to blame for your failures. You areresponsible for the good and bad in your life. As a corollary to this, look ateverything other people do as a strategic maneuver, an attempt to gain victory.People who accuse you of being unfair, for example, who try to make you feelguilty, who talk about justice and morality, are trying to gain an advantage on thechessboard. Depend on your own arms. In the search for success in life, people tend to relyon things that seem simple and easy or that have worked before. This could mean accumulating wealth, resources, a large number of allies, or the latesttechnology and the advantage it brings. This is being materialistic andmechanical. But true strategy is psychological--a matter of intelligence, notmaterial force. Everything in life can be taken away from you and generally willbe at some point. Your wealth vanishes, the latest gadgetry suddenly becomespasse, your allies desert you. But if your mind is armed with the art of war, thereis no power that can take that away. In the middle of a crisis, your mind will findits way to the right solution. Having superior strategies at your fingertips willgive your maneuvers irresistible force. As Sun-tzu says, "Being unconquerablelies with yourself."And Athena, whose eyes were as grey as owls: "Diomedes, son ofTydeus...You don't have to fear Ares or any other Of the immortals. Look whois here beside you. Drive your horses directly at Ares And when you're inrange, strike. Don't be in awe of Ares. He's nothing but A shifty lout..."...Andwhen Diomedes thrust next, She drove his spear home to the pit Of Ares'belly, where the kilt-piece covered it.... [Ares] quickly scaled the heights ofOlympus, Sat down sulking beside Cronion Zeus, Showed him the immortalblood oozing From his wound, and whined these winged words: "FatherZeus, doesn't it infuriate you To see this violence? We gods Get the worst of itfrom each other Whenever we try to help out men..." And Zeus, from underthunderhead brows: "Shifty lout. Don't sit here by me and whine. You're themost loathsome god on Olympus. You actually like fighting and war. You takeafter your hardheaded mother, Hera. I can barely control her either.... Be thatas it may, I cannot tolerate you're being in pain..." And he called Paieon todoctor his wound...Worship Athena, not Ares. In the mythology of ancient Greece, the cleverestimmortal of them all was the goddess Metis. To prevent her from outwitting anddestroying him, Zeus married her, then swallowed her whole, hoping toincorporate her wisdom in the process. But Metis was pregnant with Zeus'schild, the goddess Athena, who was subsequently born from his