with assurance of safety: in this matter the piquant paradox holds good that the half is more than the whole. clxxi W aste not Inﬂuence. The great as friends are for great occasions. One should not make use of great conﬁdence for little things: for that is to waste a favour. The sheet anchor should be reserved for the last extremity . If you use up the great for little ends what remains afterwards? Nothing is more valuable than a protector, and nothing costs more nowadays than a favour. It can make or unmake a whole world. It can even give sense and take it away . As Nature and Fame are favourable to the wise, so Luck is generally envious of them. It is therefore more important to keep the favour of the mighty than goods and chattels. clxxii Never contend with a Man who has nothing to Lose; for thereby you enter into an unequal conﬂict. The other enters without anxiety; having lost everything, including shame, he has no further loss to fear. He therefore re-sorts to all kinds of insolence. One should never expose a valuable reputation to so terrible a risk, lest what has cost years to gain may be lost in a moment, since a single slight may wipe out much sweat. A man of honour and responsibility has a reputation, because he has much to lose. He balances his own and the other's reputation: he only enters into the contest with the greatest caution, and then goes to work with such circumspection that he gives time to prudence to retire in time and bring his reputation under cover. For even by victory he cannot gain what he has lost by exposing himself to the chances of loss. clxxiii Do not be Glass in Intercourse, still less in Friendship. Some break very easily , and thereby show their want of consistency . They attribute to themselves imaginary oﬀences and to others oppressive intentions. Their feelings are even more sensitive than the eye itself, and must not be touched in jest or in earnest. Motes oﬀend them: they need not wait for beams. Those who consort with them must treat them with the greatest delicacy , have regard to their sensitiveness, and watch their demeanour, since the slightest slight arouses their annoyance. They are mostly very egoistic, slaves of their moods, for the sake of which they cast everything aside: they are the worshippers of punctilio. On the other hand, the disposition of the true lover is ﬁrm and enduring, so that it may be said that the Arrant is half adamant. clxxiv Do not live in a Hurry . To know how to separate things is to know how to enjoy them. Many ﬁnish their fortune sooner than their life: they run through pleasures without enjoying them, and would like to go back when they ﬁnd they have over-leaped the mark. Postilions of life, they increase the ordinary pace of life by the hurry of