want to examine what is, to observe and beaware of exactly what is the actual, without giving it any slant, without givingit an interpretation. It needs an extraordinarily astute mind, anextraordinarily pliable heart, to be aware of and to follow what is; becausewhat is is constantly moving, constantly undergoing a transformation, and ifthe mind is tethered to belief, to knowledge, it ceases to pursue, it ceases tofollow the swift movement of what is. What is is not static, surely--it isconstantly moving, as you will see if you observe it very closely. To follow it,you need a very swift mind and a pliable heart--which are denied when themind is static, fixed in a belief, in a prejudice, in an identification; and a mindand heart that are dry cannot follow easily, swiftly, that which is.JIDDU KRISHNAMURTI, 1895-1986Relationships often develop a certain tiresome predictability. You do whatyou usually do, other people respond the way they usually do, and around itgoes. If you reverse course, act in a novel manner, you alter the entire dynamic.Do this every so often to break up the relationship's stale patterns and open it tonew possibilities. Think of your mind as an army. Armies must adapt to the complexity and chaosof modern war by becoming more fluid and maneuverable. The ultimateextension of this evolution is guerrilla warfare, which exploits chaos by makingdisorder and unpredictability a strategy. The guerrilla army never stops to defenda particular place or town; it wins by always moving, staying one step ahead. By following no set pattern, it gives the enemy no target. The guerrilla army neverrepeats the same tactic. It responds to the situation, the moment, the terrainwhere it happens to find itself. There is no front, no concrete line ofcommunication or supply, no slow-moving wagon. The guerrilla army is puremobility.That is the model for your new way of thinking. Apply no tactic rigidly; donot let your mind settle into static positions, defending any particular place oridea, repeating the same lifeless maneuvers. Attack problems from new angles,adapting to the landscape and to what you're given. By staying in constantmotion you show your enemies no target to aim at. You exploit the chaos of theworld instead of succumbing to it. REVERSALThere is never any value in fighting the last war. But while you're eliminatingthat pernicious tendency, you must imagine that your enemy is trying to do thesame--trying to learn from and adapt to the present. Some of history's worstmilitary disasters have come not out of fighting the last war but out of assumingthat that's what your opponent will do. When Saddam Hussein of Iraq invadedKuwait in 1990, he thought the United States had yet to recover from "Vietnamsyndrome"--the fear of casualties and loss that had been so traumatic during theVietnam period--and that it would either avoid war altogether or would fight in the same way it had, trying to win the fight from the air instead of on the ground.He did not realize that the American military was ready for a new kind of war.Remember: