war, they are notreally saying what they mean. Their quarrel should be with the policy itself,not with its influence. If the policy is right--that is, successful--any intentionaleffect it has on the conduct of war can only be to the good. If it has the opposite effect the policy itself is wrong. Only if statesmen look to certainmilitary moves and actions to produce effects that are foreign to their naturedo political decisions influence operations for the worse. In the same way asa man who has not fully mastered a foreign language sometimes fails toexpress himself correctly, so statesmen often issue orders that defeat thepurpose they are meant to serve. Time and again that has happened, whichdemonstrates that a certain grasp of military affairs is vital for those incharge of general policy. Before continuing, we must guard against a likelymisinterpretation. We are far from believing that a minister of war immersedin his files, an erudite engineer or even an experienced soldier would, simplyon the basis of their particular experience, make the best director of policy--always assuming that the prince himself is not in control. Far from it. What isneeded in the post is distinguished intellect and strength of character. He canalways get the necessary military information somehow or other. The militaryand political affairs of France were never in worse hands than when thebrothers Belle-Isle and the Duc de Choiseul were responsible--good soldiersthough they all were.ON WAR, CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ, 1780-1831A part of grand strategy related to severing the roots is seeing dangers asthey start to sprout, then cutting them down before they get too big to handle. Agrand strategist knows the value of preemptive action. Take the indirect route to your goal. The greatest danger you face in strategy islosing the initiative and finding yourself constantly reacting to what the otherside does. The solution, of course, is to plan ahead but also to plan subtly--totake the indirect route. Preventing your opponent from seeing the purpose ofyour actions gives you an enormous advantage.So make your first move merely a setup, designed to extract a response fromyour opponent that opens him up to what comes next. Hit him directly and hereacts, taking a defensive pose that may allow him to parry your next blow; butif he can't see the point of your strike, or if it misleads him as to where the nextone will come from, he is defenseless and blind. The key is to maintain controlof your emotions and plot your moves in advance, seeing the entire chessboard.The film director Alfred Hitchcock made this strategy a life principle. Hisevery action a setup designed to yield results down the road, he calmly thoughtahead and moved step by step. His goal was to make a film that matched his original vision, uncorrupted by the influence of the actors, producers, and otherstaff who necessarily came along later. By controlling every detail of the film'sscreenplay, he made it almost impossible for the producer to interfere. Shouldthe producer try to meddle during the actual shooting, Hitchcock would have