and mastery of weapons--to master equalopponents.FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1844-1900No one had ever seen a politician quite like Thatcher. A woman in a worldrun by men, she was also proudly middle class--the daughter of a grocer--in thetraditional party of the aristocracy. Her clothes were prim, more like ahousewife's than a politician's. She had not been a player in the ConservativeParty; in fact, she was on its right-wing fringes. Most striking of all was herstyle: where other politicians were smooth and conciliatory, she confronted heropponents, attacking them directly. She had an appetite for battle.Most politicians saw Thatcher's election as a fluke and didn't expect her tolast. And in her first few years leading the party, when Labour was in power, shedid little to change their opinion. She railed against the socialist system, which inher mind had choked all initiative and was largely responsible for the decline ofthe British economy. She criticized the Soviet Union at a time of detente. Then,in the winter of 1978-79, several public-sector unions decided to strike. Thatcherwent on the warpath, linking the strikes to the Labour Party and Prime MinisterJames Callaghan. This was bold, divisive talk, good for making the eveningnews--but not for winning elections. You had to be gentle with the voters,reassure them, not frighten them. At least that was the conventional wisdom.In 1979 the Labour Party called a general election. Thatcher kept on theattack, categorizing the election as a crusade against socialism and as GreatBritain's last chance to modernize. Callaghan was the epitome of the genteelpolitician, but Thatcher got under his skin. He had nothing but disdain for thishousewife-turned-politician, and he returned her fire: he agreed that the electionwas a watershed, for if Thatcher won, she would send the economy into shock.The strategy seemed partly to work; Thatcher scared many voters, and the pollsthat tracked personal popularity showed that her numbers had fallen well belowCallaghan's. At the same time, though, her rhetoric, and Callaghan's response toit, polarized the electorate, which could finally see a sharp difference betweenthe parties. Dividing the public into left and right, she charged into the breach,sucking in attention and attracting the undecided. She won a sizable victory.Thatcher had bowled over the voters, but now, as prime minister, she wouldhave to moderate her tone, heal the wounds--according to the polls, at any rate,that was what the public wanted. But Thatcher as usual did the opposite, enacting budget cuts that went even deeper than she had proposed during thecampaign. As her policies played out, the economy did indeed go into shock, asCallaghan had said it would, and unemployment soared. Men in her own party,many of whom had by that point been resenting her treatment of them for years,began publicly to question her abilities. These men, whom she called the "wets,"were the most respected members of the Conservative Party, and they were in apanic: she was leading the country into an economic disaster that they wereafraid they would pay for with their careers. Thatcher's response was to purgethem from her cabinet. She seemed bent on pushing