the same time give the enemya nasty psychological shock. The loins were a reserve force kept back to bethrown in for the coup de grace. These men often actually stood with their backsto the battle, so as not to grow overly excited and rush in before the rightmoment.Years after Isandlwana a commission laid the blame for the disaster onDurnford, but in reality it was not his fault. It was true that the British had letthemselves be surrounded, but they managed to form lines in decent order andfought back bravely and well. What destroyed them was what destroyed everyopponent of the Zulus: the terror created by the precision of their movements,the feeling of being encircled in an ever-tightening space, the occasional sight ofa fellow soldier succumbing to the horrible Zulu spear, the war cries, the spearsthat rained down at the moment of greatest weakness, the nightmarish sight of areserve force suddenly joining the circle. For all the superiority of theirweaponry, the British collapsed under this calculated psychological pressure.As soon as it grew light, Hannibal sent forward the Balearics and the otherlight infantry. He then crossed the river in person and as each division wasbrought across he assigned it its place in the line. The Gaulish and Spanishhorse he posted near the bank on the left wing in front of the Roman cavalry;the right wing was assigned to the Numidian troopers. The centre consisted of a strong force of infantry, the Gauls and Spaniards in the middle, the Africansat either end of them.... These nations, more than any other, inspired terror bythe vastness of their stature and their frightful appearance: the Gauls werenaked above the waist, the Spaniards had taken up their position wearingwhite tunics embroidered with purple, of dazzling brilliancy. The total numberof infantry in the field [at Cannae] was 40,000, and there were 10,000cavalry. Hasdrubal was in command of the left wing, Marhabal of the right;Hannibal himself with his brother Mago commanded the centre. It was agreat convenience to both armies that the sun shone obliquely on them,whether it was that they purposely so placed themselves, or whether ithappened by accident, since the Romans faced the north, the Carthaginiansthe south. The wind, called by the inhabitants the Vulturnus, was against theRomans, and blew great clouds of dust into their faces, making it impossiblefor them to see in front of them. When the battle [at Cannae] was raised, theauxiliaries ran forward, and the battle began with the light infantry. Then theGauls and Spaniards on the left engaged the Roman cavalry on the right; thebattle was not at all like a cavalry fight, for there was no room formaneuvering, the river on the one side and the infantry on the other hemmingthem in, compelled them to fight face to face. Each side tried to force theirway straight forward, till at last the horses were standing in a closely pressedmass, and the riders seized their opponents and tried to drag them from theirhorses. It had become mainly a struggle of infantry, fierce but