led by Robespierre, confronted this threatby initiating a war against the moderates, the Reign of Terror. Accused ofcounterrevolution, thousands were sent to the guillotine. No one knew whowould be next. Although the radicals were relatively small in number, bycreating such uncertainty and fear they were able to paralyze their opponents'will. Paradoxically, the Reign of Terror--which gives us the first recordedinstance of the use of the words "terrorism" and "terrorist"--produced a degree ofstability.Although terror as a strategy can be employed by large armies and indeedwhole states, it is most effectively practiced by those small in number. Thereason is simple: the use of terror usually requires a willingness to kill innocentcivilians in the name of a greater good and for a strategic purpose. For centuries,with a few notable exceptions such as the Mongols, military leaders wereunwilling to go so far. Meanwhile a state that inflicted mass terror on its ownpopulace would unleash demons and create a chaos it might find hard to control.But small groups have no such problems. Being so few in number, they cannothope to wage a conventional war or even a guerrilla campaign. Terror is theirstrategy of last resort. Taking on a much larger enemy, they are often desperate,and they have a cause to which they are utterly committed. Ethicalconsiderations pale in comparison. And creating chaos is part of their strategy.Terrorism was limited for many centuries by its tools: the sword, the knife,the gun, all agents of individual killing. Then, in the nineteenth century, a singlecampaign produced a radical innovation, giving birth to terrorism as we know ittoday.In the late 1870s, a group of Russian radicals, mostly from the intelligentsia,had been agitating for a peasant-led revolution. Eventually they realized thattheir cause was hopeless: the peasants were unprepared to take this kind ofaction, and, more important, the czarist regime and its repressive forces were fartoo powerful. Czar Alexander II had recently initiated what became known asthe White Terror, a brutal crackdown on any form of dissidence. It was almostimpossible for the radicals to operate in the open, let alone spread theirinfluence. Yet if they did nothing, the czar's strength would only grow.And so from among these radicals, a group emerged bent on waging a terrorist war. They called themselves Narodnaya Volia, or "People's Will." Tokeep their organization clandestine, they kept it small. They dressedinconspicuously, melting into the crowd. And they began to make bombs. Oncethey had assassinated a number of government ministers, the czar became avirtual prisoner in his palace. Deranged with the desire to hunt the terroristsdown, he directed all of his energies toward this goal, with the result that muchof his administration became dysfunctional.The basis of Mongol warfare was unadulterated terror. Massacre, rapine andtorture were the price of defeat, whether enforced or negotiated.... The wholeapparatus of terror was remorselessly applied to sap the victim's will toresist, and in practical terms this policy of "frightfulness" certainly paidshort-term dividends. Whole armies were known to dissolve into fear-riddenfragments at the news of the approach of the toumans .... Many enemies wereparalysed...before