are lessbrilliant in their youth can often attain much more. Natural talent or a high IQcannot explain future achievement.As a classic example, compare the lives of Sir Francis Galton and his oldercousin, Charles Darwin. By all accounts, Galton was a super-genius with anexceptionally high IQ, quite a bit higher than Darwin’s (these are estimates doneby experts years after the invention of the measurement). Galton was a boywonder who went on to have an illustrious scientific career, but he never quitemastered any of the fields he went into. He was notoriously restless, as is oftenthe case with child prodigies.Darwin, by contrast, is rightly celebrated as the superior scientist, one of the few who has forever changed our view of life. As Darwin himself admitted, hewas “a very ordinary boy, rather below the common standard in intellect…. Ihave no great quickness of apprehension…. My power to follow a long andpurely abstract train of thought is very limited.” Darwin, however, must havepossessed something that Galton lacked.In many ways, a look at the early life of Darwin himself can supply ananswer to this mystery. As a child Darwin had one overriding passion—collecting biological specimens. His father, a doctor, wanted him to follow in hisfootsteps and study medicine, enrolling him at the University of Edinburgh.Darwin did not take to this subject and was a mediocre student. His father,despairing that his son would ever amount to anything, chose for him a career inthe church. As Darwin was preparing for this, a former professor of his told himthat the HMS Beagle was to leave port soon to sail around the world, and that itneeded a ship’s biologist to accompany the crew in order to collect specimensthat could be sent back to England. Despite his father’s protests, Darwin took thejob. Something in him was drawn to the voyage.Suddenly, his passion for collecting found its perfect outlet. In SouthAmerica he could collect the most astounding array of specimens, as well asfossils and bones. He could connect his interest in the variety of life on theplanet with something larger—major questions about the origins of species. Hepoured all of his energy into this enterprise, accumulating so many specimensthat a theory began to take shape in his mind. After five years at sea, he returnedto England and devoted the rest of his life to the single task of elaborating histheory of evolution. In the process he had to deal with a tremendous amount ofdrudgery—for instance, eight years exclusively studying barnacles to establishhis credentials as a biologist. He had to develop highly refined political andsocial skills to handle all the prejudice against such a theory in VictorianEngland. And what sustained him throughout this lengthy process was hisintense love of and connection to the subject.The basic elements of this story are repeated in the lives of all of the greatMasters in history: a youthful passion or predilection, a chance encounter thatallows them to discover how to apply it, an apprenticeship in which they comealive with energy and focus. They excel by their ability to