northwest into Transoxiana at remarkable speed. The shahhurriedly sent south his last reserves, an army of 50,000, to do battle with Jebe.He still was not worried--his men had proved their superiority in direct combat,at the battle in the Fergana Valley.This time, however, it was different. The Mongols unleashed strangeweapons: their arrows were dipped in burning tar, which created smoke screensbehind which their lightning-quick horsemen advanced, opening breaches in thelines of the shah's army through which more heavily armed cavalry wouldadvance. Chariots darted back and forth behind the Mongol lines, bringing upconstant supplies. The Mongols filled the sky with arrows, creating relentlesspressure. They wore shirts of heavy silk. An arrow that managed to pierce theshirt would rarely reach the flesh and could be extracted easily by pulling at theshirt, all of this done while moving at great speed. Jebe's army annihilated theshah's forces.The shah had one option left: retreat to the west, retrench, and slowly rebuildhis army. As he began preparations, however, something beyond belief occurred:an army under Genghis Khan himself suddenly stood outside the gates of thecity of Bukhara, to the west of Samarkand. Where had they come from? Theycould not have crossed the Kizil Kum Desert to the north. Their appearanceseemed all but impossible, as if the devil himself had conjured them up. Bukharasoon fell, and within days Samarkand followed. Soldiers deserted, generals panicked. The shah, fearing for his life, fled with a handful of soldiers. TheMongols pursued him relentlessly. Months later, on a small island in the CaspianSea, abandoned by one and all, wearing rags and begging for food, the formerruler of the wealthiest empire in the East finally died of hunger.InterpretationWhen Genghis Khan became the leader of the Mongol nation, he inheritedperhaps the fastest army on the planet, but their swiftness had translated intolimited military success. The Mongols might have perfected the art of fightingon horseback, but they were too undisciplined to exploit any advantage theygained this way or to coordinate for a large-scale attack. The genius of GenghisKhan was to transform the chaotic Mongol speed into something organized,disciplined, and strategic. He achieved this by adapting the ancient Chinesestrategy of slow-slow-quick-quick.The first step, a "slow," was to meticulously prepare before any campaign,which the Mongols always did to the highest degree. (In planning for the attackon the shah, the Mongols learned of a guide who knew of a chain of oases acrossthe Kizil Kum Desert. This man was captured and later led Genghis Khan's armyacross the forbidding territory.) The second "slow" was a setup, which involvedgetting the enemy to lower its guard, lulling it into complacency. The Mongols,for example, deliberately lost the first battle in the Fergana Valley to feed theshah's arrogance. Then came the first "quick": fixing the enemy's attentionforward with a swift frontal attack (Jebe's raids along the river). The final"quick" was a doubly swift blow from an unexpected direction. (Genghis'ssudden appearance before the gates of Bukhara is considered by many thegreatest military surprise in history.) A master of psychological warfare, GenghisKhan understood that men are