they not do? Warriors exert their full strength. Whenwarriors are in great danger, then they have no fear. When there isnowhere to go, they are firm, when they are deeply involved, they stick toit. If they have no choice, they will fight.--The Art of War, Sun-tzu (fourth century B.C.)REVERSALIf the feeling of having nothing to lose can propel you forward, it can do thesame for others. You must avoid any conflict with people in this position. Maybethey are living in terrible conditions or, for whatever reason, are suicidal; in anycase they are desperate, and desperate people will risk everything in a fight. Thisgives them a huge advantage. Already defeated by circumstances, they havenothing to lose. You do. Leave them alone.Conversely, attacking enemies when their morale is low gives you theadvantage. Maybe they are fighting for a cause they know is unjust or for aleader they do not respect. Find a way to lower their spirits even further. Troopswith low morale are discouraged by the slightest setback. A show of force willcrush their fighting spirit.Always try to lower the other side's sense of urgency. Make your enemiesthink they have all the time in the world; when you suddenly appear at theirborder, they are in a slumbering state, and you will easily overrun them. Whileyou are sharpening your fighting spirit, always do what you can to blunt theirs. PART II ORGANIZATIONAL (TEAM) WARFAREYou may have brilliant ideas, you may be able to invent unbeatable strategies--but if the group that you lead, and that you depend on to execute your plans, isunresponsive and uncreative, and if its members always put their personalagendas first, your ideas will mean nothing. You must learn the lesson of war: itis the structure of the army--the chain of command and the relationship of theparts to the whole--that will give your strategies force.The primary goal in war is to build speed and mobility into the very structureof your army. That means having a single authority on top, avoiding thehesitancy and confusion of divided leadership. It means giving soldiers a senseof the overall goal to be accomplished and the latitude to take action to meet thatgoal; instead of reacting like automatons, they are able to respond to events inthe field. Finally, it means motivating soldiers, creating an overall esprit de corpsthat gives them irresistible momentum. With forces organized in this manner, ageneral can adapt to circumstances faster than the enemy can, gaining a decidedadvantage.This military model is extremely adaptable to any group. It has one simplerequirement: before formulating a strategy or taking action, understand thestructure of your group. You can always change it and redesign it to fit yourpurposes. The following three chapters will help you focus on this critical issueand give you strategic options--possible organizational models to follow, as wellas disastrous mistakes to avoid. AVOID THE SNARES OF GROUPTHINKTHE COMMAND-AND-CONTROL STRATEGYThe problem in leading any group is that people inevitably have their ownagendas. If you are too authoritarian, they will resent you and rebel in silentways. If you are