Feminine Within You The Law of Gender Rigidity The Authentic Gender Gender Projection—Types The Original Man/Woman 13 Advance with a Sense of Purpose The Law of Aimlessness The Voice Strategies for Developing a High Sense of Purpose The Lure of False Purposes 14 Resist the Downward Pull of the Group The Law of Conformity An Experiment in Human Nature The Court and Its Courtiers The Reality Group 15 Make Them Want to Follow You The Law of Fickleness The Entitlement Curse Strategies for Establishing Authority The Inner Authority 16 See the Hostility Behind the Friendly Façade The Law of Aggression The Sophisticated Aggressor The Source of Human Aggression Passive Aggression—Its Strategies and How to Counter Them Controlled Aggression 17 Seize the Historical Moment The Law of Generational Myopia The Rising Tide The Generational Phenomenon Generational Patterns Strategies for Exploiting the Spirit of the Times The Human Beyond Time and Death 18 Meditate on Our Common Mortality The Law of Death Denial The Bullet in the Side A Philosophy of Life Through Death Acknowledgments Selected Bibliography Index About the Author T Introduction If you come across any special trait of meanness or stupidity . . . you must be careful not to let it annoy or distress you, but to look upon it merely as an addition to your knowledge—a new fact to be considered in studying the character of humanity. Your attitude towards it will be that of the mineralogist who stumbles upon a very characteristic specimen of a mineral. —Arthur Schopenhauer hroughout the course of our lives, we inevitably have to deal with a variety of individuals who stir up trouble and make our lives difficult and unpleasant. Some of these individuals are leaders or bosses, some are colleagues, and some are friends. They can be aggressive or passive-aggressive, but they are generally masters at playing on our emotions. They often appear charming and refreshingly confident, brimming with ideas and enthusiasm, and we fall under their spell. Only when it is too late do we discover that their confidence is irrational and their ideas ill-conceived. Among colleagues, they can be those who sabotage our work or careers out of secret envy, excited to bring us down. Or they could be colleagues or hires who reveal, to our dismay, that they are completely out for themselves, using us as stepping-stones. What inevitably happens in these situations is that we are caught off guard, not expecting such behavior. Often these types will hit us with elaborate cover stories to justify their actions, or blame handy scapegoats. They know how to confuse us and draw us into a drama they control. We might protest or become angry, but in the end we feel rather helpless—the damage is done. Then another such type enters our life, and the same story repeats itself. We often notice a similar sensation of confusion and helplessness when it comes to ourselves and our own behavior. For instance, we suddenly say something that offends our boss or colleague