too easygoing, they will revert to their natural selfishness andyou will lose control. You have to create a chain of command in which people donot feel constrained by your influence yet follow your lead. Put the right peoplein place--people who will enact the spirit of your ideas without beingautomatons. Make your commands clear and inspiring, focusing attention on theteam, not the leader. Create a sense of participation, but do not fall intoGroupthink--the irrationality of collective decision making. Make yourself looklike a paragon of fairness, but never relinquish unity of command.How very different is the cohesion between that of an army rallying aroundone flag carried into battle at the personal command of one general and thatof an allied military force extending 50 or 100 leagues, or even on differentsides of the theater! In the first case, cohesion is at its strongest and unity atits closest. In the second case, the unity is very remote, often consisting of nomore than a shared political intention, and therefore only scanty andimperfect, while the cohesion of the parts is mostly weak and often no morethan an illusion.ON WAR, CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ, 1780-1831THE BROKEN CHAINWorld War I began in August 1914, and by the end of that year, all along theWestern Front, the British and French were caught in a deadly stalemate with theGermans. Meanwhile, though, on the Eastern Front, Germany was badly beatingthe Russians, allies of Britain and France. Britain's military leaders had to try anew strategy, and their plan, backed by First Lord of the Admiralty WinstonChurchill and others, was to stage an attack on Gallipoli, a peninsula on Turkey'sDardanelles Strait. Turkey was an ally of Germany's, and the Dardanelles wasthe gateway to Constantinople, the Turkish capital (present-day Istanbul). If theAllies could take Gallipoli, Constantinople would follow, and Turkey wouldhave to leave the war. In addition, using bases in Turkey and the Balkans, the Allies could attack Germany from the southeast, dividing its armies andweakening its ability to fight on the Western Front. They would also have a clearsupply line to Russia. Victory at Gallipoli would change the course of the war.The plan was approved, and in March 1915, General Sir Ian Hamilton wasnamed to lead the campaign. Hamilton, at sixty-two, was an able strategist andan experienced commander. He and Churchill felt certain that their forces,including Australians and New Zealanders, would out-match the Turks.Churchill's orders were simple: take Constantinople. He left the details to thegeneral.Hamilton's plan was to land at three points on the southwestern tip of theGallipoli peninsula, secure the beaches, and sweep north. The landings tookplace on April 27. From the beginning almost everything went wrong: the army'smaps were inaccurate, its troops landed in the wrong places, the beaches weremuch narrower than expected. Worst of all, the Turks fought back unexpectedlyfiercely and well. At the end of the first day, most of the Allies' 70,000 men hadlanded, but they were unable to advance beyond the beaches, where the Turkswould hold them pinned down for several weeks. It was another stalemate;Gallipoli had become