and hemade bit-part appearances in most of his films, becoming an instantlyrecognizable, endearingly humorous figure. He put himself in the middle ofevery aspect of production, from writing the script before the shoot began toediting the film when the shoot was finished. At the same time, he kept all thefilmmaking departments, even that of the producer, a little out of the loop;information about every detail of the film was kept in his head, his drawings, andhis notes. No one could bypass him; every decision went through him. Beforethe film was shot, for example, Hitchcock would set out in detail the look of theleading lady's costumes. If the costume designer wanted to change anything, shewould have to go through him or be caught out in rank insubordination. Inessence, he was like Rome: all roads led to Hitchcock.Within your group, factions may emerge quite subtly by virtue of the factthat people who are experts in their area may not tell you everything they'redoing. Remember: they see only the small picture; you are in charge of thewhole production. If you are to lead, you must occupy the center. Everythingmust flow through you. If information is to be withheld, you are the one to do it.That is divide and rule: if the different parts of the operation lack access to allthe information, they will have to come to you to get it. It is not that youmicromanage but that you keep overall control of everything vital and isolateany potential rival power base.Throughout the 1950s and '60s, Major General Edward Lansdale wasconsidered America's principal expert in counterinsurgency. Working with President Ramon Magsaysay of the Philippines, he had crafted a plan that haddefeated the country's Huk guerrilla movement in the early 1950s.Counterinsurgency requires a deft hand, more political than military, and forLansdale the key to success was to stamp out government corruption and bringthe people close to the government through various popular programs. Thatwould deny the insurgents their cause, and they would die of isolation. Lansdalethought it folly to imagine that leftist rebels could be defeated by force; in fact,force just played into their hands, giving them a cause they could use to rallysupport. For insurgents, isolation from the people is death.Think of the people in your group who are working primarily for their owninterests as insurgents. They are Cassius types who thrive on discontent in theorganization, fanning it into dissension and factionalism. You can always workto divide such factions once you know about them, but the better solution is tokeep your soldiers satisfied and contented, giving the insurgents nothing to feedon. Bitter and isolated, they will die off on their own.The divide-and-rule strategy is invaluable in trying to influence peopleverbally. Start by seeming to take your opponents' side on some issue, occupyingtheir flank. Once there, however, create doubt about some part of their argument,tweaking and diverting it a bit. This will lower their resistance and maybe createa little inner conflict about a cherished idea or belief. That conflict will weakenthem, making them vulnerable to further suggestion