and he made him a general, appointinghim to lead an army to resist the aggression of the forces of Yan and Jin.Rangju said, "I am lowly in social status, yet the lord has promoted me fromthe ranks and placed me above even the grandees. The soldiers are not yetloyal to me, and the common people are not familiar with me; as a man oflittle account, my authority is slight. I request one of your favorite ministers,someone honored by the state, to be overseer of the army." The lord accededto this request and appointed a nobleman to be the overseer. Rangju took hisleave, arranging to meet the nobleman at the military headquarters at noonthe following day. Then Rangju hastened back to set up a sundial and awater-clock to await the new overseer. Now this new overseer was a proud and haughty aristocrat, and he imagined that as overseer he was leading hisown army. Because of his pride and arrogance, he did not see any need tohurry, in spite of his promise with Rangju the martial master. His relativesand close associates gave him a farewell party, and he stayed to drink withthem. At noon the next day, the new overseer had not arrived at headquarters.Rangju took down the sundial and emptied the water-clock. He assembled thetroops and informed them of the agreement with the new overseer. Thatevening the nobleman finally arrived. Rangju said to him, "Why are youlate?" He said, "My relatives, who are grandees, gave me a farewell party, soI stayed for that." Rangju said, "On the day a military leader receives hisorders, he forgets about his home; when a promise is made in the face ofbattle, one forgets his family; when the war drums sound, one forgets his ownbody. Now hostile states have invaded our territory; the state is in an uproar;the soldiers are exposed at the borders; the lord cannot rest or enjoy his food;the lives of the common people all depend on you--how can you talk aboutfarewell parties?" Rangju then summoned the officer in charge of militarydiscipline and asked him, "According to military law, what happens tosomeone who arrives later than an appointed time?" The officer replied, "Heis supposed to be decapitated." Terrified, the aristocrat had a messenger rushback to report this to the lord and beseech him for help. But the haughtynobleman was executed before the messenger even returned, and hisexecution was announced to the army. The soldiers all shook with fear.Eventually the lord sent an emissary with a letter pardoning the nobleman,who was, after all, the new overseer of the army. The emissary galloped rightinto camp on horseback with the lord's message. Rangju said, "When ageneral is in the field, there are orders he doesn't take from the ruler." Healso said to the disciplinary officer, "It is a rule that there shall be nogalloping through camp, yet now the emissary has done just that. Whatshould be done with him?" The officer said, "He should be executed." Theemissary was petrified, but Rangju said, "It is not proper