a problem: not only was the Fuhrer suspicious and waryby nature, he knew of previous attempts to mislead him and knew that the Allieswould have to try to deceive him again. How could the Allies possibly disguisethe actual goal of a vast armada from a man who had reason to believe theywould try to mislead him and was scrutinizing their every move?Fortunately, British intelligence had been able to provide the planners of theD-Day landings, including Prime Minister Winston Churchill, with informationthat would prove invaluable to them. First, they knew that Hitler was growingparanoid; he was isolated and overworked, his imagination overheated. He wasprone to emotional outbursts, and he was suspicious of everyone and everything.Second, they knew of his belief that the Allies would try to invade the Balkansbefore France and that the landing site in France would be in the Pas de Calais.He almost seemed to want these invasions to happen, as proof of his superiorreasoning powers and foresight.Fooling Hitler into keeping his forces dispersed across Europe and Francewould give the Allies a slim margin of time in which to establish a beachhead.The key was to present him a picture, composed of many different kinds ofevidence, that would tell him the Allies were doing just what he had thoughtthey would. But this picture could not be made up of all kinds of flashing signspointing to the Balkans and the Pas de Calais--that would reek of deception.Instead they had to create something that had the weight and feel of reality. Ithad to be subtle, a mix of banal truths with little falsehoods stitched in. If Hitlersaw that in its outlines it supported his expectations, his overactive mind wouldfill in the rest. This is how the Allies wove such a picture.At the end of the war, Allied Intelligence Officers discovered in captured filesof the German Secret Service the text of two hundred and fifty messages received from agents and other sources before D-Day. Nearly all mentionedJuly and the Calais sector. One message alone gave the exact date and placeof the invasion. It had come from a French colonel in Algiers. The Allies haddiscovered this officer was working for the Abwehr and he was arrested andsubsequently turned round. He too was used to mislead Berlin--used andabused. The Germans were so often deceived by him that they ended bytreating all his information as valueless. But they kept in contact, for it isalways useful to know what the enemy wants you to believe. AlliedIntelligence, with great boldness and truly remarkable perversity, had thecolonel announce that the Invasion would take place on the coast ofNormandy on the 5th, 6th or 7th June. For the Germans, his message wasabsolute proof that the invasion was to be on any day except the 5th, 6th or7th June, and on any part of the coast except Normandy.THE SECRETS OF D-DAY, GILLES PERRAULT, 1965By late 1943 the British had secretly identified all of the German agentsactive in England. The next step was to turn them into unwitting double agentsby feeding them