creative processrequires three essential steps: first, choosing the proper Creative Task, the kindof activity that will maximize our skills and knowledge; second, loosening andopening up the mind through certain Creative Strategies; and third, creating theoptimal mental conditions for a Breakthrough or Insight. Finally, throughout theprocess we must also be aware of the Emotional Pitfalls—complacency,boredom, grandiosity, and the like—that continually threaten to derail or blockour progress. If we can move through the steps while avoiding these traps, wecannot fail to unleash powerful creative forces from within.Step One: The Creative TaskYou must begin by altering your very concept of creativity and by trying to see itfrom a new angle. Most often, people associate creativity with somethingintellectual, a particular way of thinking. The truth is that creative activity is onethat involves the entire self—our emotions, our levels of energy, our characters,and our minds. To make a discovery, to invent something that connects with thepublic, to fashion a work of art that is meaningful, inevitably requires time andeffort. This often entails years of experimentation, various setbacks and failures,and the need to maintain a high level of focus. You must have patience and faiththat what you are doing will yield something important. You could have themost brilliant mind, teeming with knowledge and ideas, but if you choose thewrong subject or problem to attack, you can run out of energy and interest. Insuch a case all of your intellectual brilliance will lead to nothing.The task that you choose to work on must have an obsessive element. Likethe Life’s Task, it must connect to something deep within you. (For Mozart, itwasn’t simply music, but opera that fully engaged him.) You must be likeCaptain Ahab in Melville’s Moby-Dick, obsessed with hunting down the GreatWhite Whale. With such a deep-rooted interest, you can withstand the setbacksand failures, the days of drudgery, and the hard work that are always a part ofany creative action. You can ignore the doubters and critics. You will then feelpersonally committed to solving the problem and will not rest until you do so. Understand: it is the choice of where to direct his or her creative energy thatmakes the Master. When Thomas Edison saw his first demonstration of theelectric arc light, he knew then and there that he had found the ultimatechallenge and the perfect goal toward which to direct his creative energies.Figuring out how to make electric light not just a gimmick, but something thatwould eventually replace the gaslight, would require years of intense labor, but itwould change the world like nothing else. It was the perfect riddle for him tosolve. He had met his creative match. For the artist Rembrandt, it was not untilhe found particular subject matters that appealed to him—dramatic scenes fromthe Bible and elsewhere that conveyed the darker and more tragic aspects of life—that he rose to the occasion and invented a whole new way of painting andcapturing light. The writer Marcel Proust suffered for years as he struggled tofind the subject matter upon which to base a novel. Finally,