to retreat--the threatwas too real--and once he had done so, he would have relinquished the initiative.At Arcola, sensing that the enemy was tiring, Napoleon sent a small contingentto cross the river to the south and march on the Austrian flank, with instructionsto make as much noise as possible--trumpets, shouts, gunfire. The presence ofthis attacking force, small though it was, would induce panic and collapse. Theruse worked.This maneuver--the manoeuvre sur les derrieres, Napoleon called it--wouldbecome a favorite strategy of his. Its success was based on two truths: First,generals like to place their armies in a strong frontal position, whether to makean attack or to meet one. Napoleon would often play on this tendency to faceforward in battle by seeming to engage the enemy frontally; in the fog of battle,it was hard to tell that really only half of his army was deployed here, andmeanwhile he would sneak the other half to the side or rear. Second, an armysensing attack from the flank is alarmed and vulnerable and must turn to face thethreat. This moment of turning contains great weakness and confusion. Even anarmy in the stronger position, like d'Alvintzi's at Verona, will almost always losecohesion and balance as it turns.Learn from the great master himself: attacking from the front is rarely wise.The soldiers facing you will be tightly packed in, a concentration of force thatwill amplify their power to resist you. Go for their flank, their vulnerable side.This principle is applicable to conflicts or encounters of any scale.Individuals often show their flank, signal their vulnerability, by its opposite,the front they show most visibly to the world. This front can be an aggressivepersonality, a way of dealing with people by pushing them around. Or it can besome obvious defense mechanism, a focus on keeping out intruders to maintainstability in their lives. It can be their most cherished beliefs and ideas; it can be the way they make themselves liked. The more you get people to expose thisfront, to show more of themselves and the directions they tend to move in, themore their unprotected flanks will come into focus--unconscious desires, gapinginsecurities, precarious alliances, uncontrollable compulsions. Once you moveon their flanks, your targets will turn to face you and lose their equilibrium. Allenemies are vulnerable from their sides. There is no defense against a well-designed flanking maneuver.Opposition to the truth is inevitable, especially if it takes the form of a newidea, but the degree of resistance can be diminished--by giving thought notonly to the aim but to the method of approach. Avoid a frontal attack on along-established position; instead, seek to turn it by flank movement, so that amore penetrable side is exposed to the thrust of truth.--B. H. Liddell Hart (1895-1970)OCCUPYING THE FLANKAs a young man, Julius Caesar (100-44 B.C.) was once captured by pirates.They asked for a ransom of twenty talents; laughing, he replied that a man of hisnobility was worth fifty talents, and he volunteered to pay that sum. Hisattendants were sent for the money, and Caesar was left alone with