text written out in threedifferent scripts—on the top, Egyptian hieroglyphs; in the middle, what isknown as demotic (the language and script of the common people of ancientEgypt), and on the bottom, ancient Greek. In translating the ancient Greek, theydiscovered that the text was a mundane proclamation celebrating the reign ofPtolemy V (203–181 B.C.). At the end of the text, however, it stated that theproclamation was to be written out in three versions, meaning that the contentwas the same in the demotic and the hieroglyphic. With the ancient Greek text asthe key, it suddenly seemed possible to decipher the other two versions. Sincethe last known hieroglyphs had been written in A.D. 394, anyone who could readthem had long died off, making it a completely dead and untranslatable languageand leaving a seemingly unsolvable mystery as to the content of so many of thewritings in temples and on papyri. Now, perhaps, these secrets could finally berevealed.The stone was carted off to an institution in Cairo, but in 1801 the Englishdefeated the French in Egypt and threw them out. Knowing of the extremelyhigh value of the Rosetta stone, they hunted it down in Cairo and shipped it offto London, where it remains to this day in the British Museum. As drawings ofthe stone began to be passed around, intellectuals from all parts of Europebecame involved in a competition to be the first to decipher the hieroglyphs andunlock the mysteries. As they began to tackle the puzzle, some progress wasmade. Certain hieroglyphs were outlined in a rectangle, known as cartouches. Itwas determined that these cartouches contained the names of various royalfigures. One Swedish professor had been able to make out the name of Ptolemyin the demotic, and speculated on the sound values the characters might have.But the initial enthusiasm for deciphering the hieroglyphs eventually died out,and many worried that they would remain undecipherable. The further anyonegot with the puzzle, the more questions that were raised about the kind of writingsystem represented by the symbols themselves.In 1814 a new figure entered the fray—an Englishman named Dr. ThomasYoung—who quickly became the leading candidate to be the first to decipher theRosetta stone. Although a medical doctor, he was a man who had dabbled in allthe sciences and was considered something of a genius. He had the blessing ofthe English establishment and full access to all of the various papyri and relicsthe English had confiscated, including the stone itself. Furthermore, he was the English had confiscated, including the stone itself. Furthermore, he wasindependently wealthy and could devote all of his time to the study. And so,throwing himself into the work with great enthusiasm, Young began to makesome progress.He had a computational approach to the problem. He counted the number oftimes a particular word, such as “god,” appeared in the Greek text, then found aword that appeared the same number of times in the demotic, assuming theywere the same word. He did everything he could to make the letters in demoticfit his scheme—if the apparent equivalent word of “god” seemed