shoot them in long takes in which much of their work wasonly loosely guided; the scenes had spontaneity and liveliness. Casual as heseemed, he knew what he wanted and would reshoot the simplest shot if the lookon the actors' faces was not loving enough. His shoot days were short and to thepoint.One day, after many days' absence, Cohn showed up on set to find McCareyserving drinks to the cast. Cohn was about to explode when the director told himthey were drinking to celebrate--they had just finished shooting. Cohn wasshocked and delighted; McCarey had finished ahead of schedule and twohundred thousand dollars under budget. Then, to his surprise as well, the picturecame together in the editing room like a strange puzzle. It was good, very good. Test audiences roared with laughter. Premiering in 1937, The Awful Truth was acomplete success and won McCarey the best director Oscar. Cohn had found hisnew Frank Capra.Unfortunately, McCarey had seen his boss's dictatorial tendencies all tooclearly, and though Cohn made lucrative offers, McCarey never worked forColumbia again.InterpretationLeo McCarey, one of the great directors of Hollywood's golden era, wasessentially a frustrated composer and songwriter. He had gone to work directingslapstick comedies--McCarey was the man who paired Laurel with Hardy--onlybecause he was unable to make a living in music. The Awful Truth is consideredone of the greatest screwball comedies ever made, and both its style and the wayMcCarey worked on it stemmed from his musical instincts: he composed thefilm in his head in just the same loose yet logical way that he would tinker with atune on the piano. To create a film this way required two things: room tomaneuver and the ability to channel chaos and confusion into the creativeprocess.McCarey kept his distance from Cohn, the actors, the screenwriters--in fact,everyone--as best he could. He would not let himself be boxed in by anyone'sidea of how to shoot a film. Given room to maneuver, he could improvise,experiment, move fluidly in different directions in any scene, yet keepeverything perfectly controlled--he always seemed to know what he wanted andwhat worked. And because filmmaking this way made every day a freshchallenge, the actors had to respond with their own energy, rather than simplyregurgitating words from a script. McCarey allowed room for chance and therandom events of life to enter his creative scheme without being overwhelmedby chaos. The scene he was inspired to create when he learned of Dunne's andBellamy's lack of musical skill, for example, seems unrehearsed and lifelikebecause it really was. Had it been scripted, it would have been far less funny.Directing a film--or any project, artistic or professional or scientific--is likefighting a war. There is a certain strategic logic to the way you attack a problem,shape your work, deal with friction and the discrepancy between what you wantand what you get. Directors or artists often start out with great ideas but in theplanning create such a straitjacket for themselves, such a rigid script to followand form to fit in, that the process loses all joy; there's nothing left