are engaged in a fight that willresult in defeat or injury, wait; when the enemy forces, though numerous,suffer from mistrust and tend to plot against one another, wait; when theenemy commander, though wise, is handicapped by some of his cohorts, wait.THE WILES OF WAR: 36 MILITARY STRATEGIES FROM ANCIENTCHINA, TRANSLATED BY SUN HAICHEN, 1991 First, having taken Vienna, Napoleon advanced to Austerlitz, apparentlytaking the offensive. That startled the Austrians and Russians, even though theystill heavily outnumbered him. Next he backed off and took a defensive position;then he seemed to switch between offense and defense, giving every appearanceof confusion. In his meeting with the czar's emissary, he seemed confusedpersonally as well as strategically. It was all high drama, staged by Napoleon tomake him look weak and vulnerable, inviting attack.These maneuvers fooled the allies into giving up prudence, striking out atNapoleon with total abandon and exposing themselves in the process. Theirdefensive position at Olmutz was so strong and dominant that only leaving itwould ruin it, and that was precisely what Napoleon lured them into doing.Then, instead of defending himself against their rash attack, he suddenlyswitched to the offensive himself, the counterattack. In doing so he altered thedynamic of the battle not only physically but psychologically: when an attackingarmy suddenly has to go on the defensive, its spirit crumbles. And indeed thealliance troops panicked, retreating to the frozen lakes that Napoleon hadintended as their graveyard all along.Most of us only know how to play either offensively or defensively. Eitherwe go into attack mode, charging our targets in a desperate push to get what wewant, or we try frantically to avoid conflict and, if it is forced on us, to ward offour enemies as best we can. Neither approach works when it excludes the other.Making offense our rule, we create enemies and risk acting rashly and losingcontrol of our own behavior, but constant defensiveness backs us into a corner,becomes a bad habit. In either case we are predictable.Instead consider a third option, the Napoleonic way. At times you seemvulnerable and defensive, getting your opponents to disregard you as a threat, tolower their guard. When the moment is right and you sense an opening, youswitch to the attack. Make your aggression controlled and your weakness a ployto disguise your intentions. In a dangerous moment, when those around you seeonly doom and the need to retreat, that is when you smell an opportunity. Byplaying weak you can seduce your aggressive enemies to come at you fullthrottle. Then catch them off guard by switching to the offense when they leastexpect it. Mixing offense and defense in this fluid fashion, you will stay one stepahead of your inflexible opponents. The best blows are the ones they never seecoming.These two main principles of application are specifically related to thetactical value assigned to the personality of the opponent in combat.According to the unilateral principle of application, the personality of the opponent was considered the primary target of an attack or counterattack, forthe purpose of either total or partial subjugation. According