the enemies around from side to side, even though they come from all four directions. Observe their attacking order, and go to meet first those who attack first. Sweep your eyes around broadly, carefully examining the attacking order, and cut left and right alternately with your swords. Waiting is bad. Always quickly reassume your attitudes to both sides, cut the enemies down as they advance, crushing them in the direction from which they attack. Whatever you do, you must drive the enemy together, as if tying a line of fishes, and when they are seen to be piled up, cut them down strongly without giving them room to move. The Advantage When Coming to Blows You can know how to win through strategy with the long sword, but it cannot be clearly explained in writing. You must practise diligently in order to understand how to win. Oral tradition:43"The true Way of strategy is revealed in the long sword." One Cut You can win with certainty with the spirit of "one cut".44 It is difficult to attain this if you do not learn strategy well. If you train well in this Way, strategy will come from your heart and you will be able to win at will. You must train diligently. Direct Communication The spirit of "Direct Communication" is how the true Way of the NiTo Ichi school is received and handed down. Oral tradition: "Teach your body strategy." Recorded in the above book is an outline of Ichi school sword fighting. To learn how to win with the long sword in strategy, first learn the five approaches and the five attitudes, and absorb the Way of the long sword naturally in your body. You must understand spirit and timing, handle the long sword naturally, and move body and legs in harmony with your spirit. Whether beating one man or two, you will then know values in strategy. Study the contents of this book, taking one item at a time, and through fighting with enemies you will gradually come to know the principle of the Way. 42There are many enemies : Musashi is held to be the inventor of the Two Sword style. His school is sometimes called “Nito Ryu” (two sword school) and sometimes “Niten Ryu” (two heavens school). He writes that the use of two swords is for when there are many enemies, but people practise a style of fencing with a sword in each hand to give practical advantage in fencing. Musashi used the words “two swords” when meaning to use all one’s resources in combat. He never used two swords when up against a skilled swordsman. 43Oral tradition : Other Kendo schools also have oral traditions as opposed to teachings passed on in formal technique. 44One cut : Whatever this means, it is wothwhile to note the “Hitotsu Gachi” (One Victory), the Kiri Otoshi technique of the Itto Ryu school, where one cut provides attack and defence, cutting down the enemy’s sword and spirit, and the related