correct test-bed hand soon became the model for theindustry, revealing whole new possibilities for prosthetic hands, vindicating herapproach, and gaining her fame and recognition for her engineering skills.This, however, was only the beginning of her quest to get at the organicnature of the hand and to literally recreate it. After graduating with a master’sdegree in robotics, she returned to MIT to pursue a PhD in neuroscience.Currently, armed with deep knowledge about the neuro-signals that make thehand-brain connection so unique, she is pursuing the goal of creating a prosthetichand that can actually connect to the brain, operating and feeling as if it werereal. To reach such a goal, she continues to work on high-end concepts, such asthe influence of the hand-brain connection on our thinking in general.In her lab she has done tests to see how people manipulate ambiguousobjects with their eyes closed. She studies how they explore them with theirhands, and records the elaborate neuro-signals that are generated in the process.She wonders if there could be a connection between such exploration andabstract thought processes (perhaps involving similar neuro-signals), such aswhen we are confronted with a problem that seems difficult to solve. She isinterested in building such exploratory sensations into the prosthetic hand. Inother experiments, in which subjects move a virtual-reality hand, she hasdiscovered that the more people are made to feel that the hand is literally a partof their bodies, the greater the degree of control they have. Creating suchsensations will be a part of the ultimate prosthetic hand she is working on.Although its realization is years away, the design of such a neurologicallyconnected hand will have technological consequences far beyond robotics. In many fields we can see and diagnose the same mental disease, which we shallcall technical lock. What this means is the following: in order to learn a subjector skill, particularly one that is complex, we must immerse ourselves in manydetails, techniques, and procedures that are standard for solving problems. If weare not careful, however, we become locked into seeing every problem in thesame way, using the same techniques and strategies that became so imprinted inus. It is always simpler to follow such a route. In the process we lose sight of thebigger picture, the purpose of what we are doing, how each problem we face isdifferent and requires a different approach. We adopt a kind of tunnel vision.This technical lock afflicts people in all fields as they lose a sense of theoverall purpose of their work, of the larger question at hand, of what impelsthem to do their work in the first place. Yoky Matsuoka hit upon a solution tothis that propelled her to the forefront of her field. It came as a reaction againstthe engineering approach that prevailed in robotics. Her mind naturally worksbetter on a larger scale, continually pondering the connections between things onhigh levels—what makes the human hand so weirdly perfect, how the hand hasinfluenced who we are and how we think. With these large questions governingher research, she avoids becoming narrowly focused on