team, look at thecandidates' histories: Are they restless? Do they often move from place to place?That is a sign of the kind of ambition that will keep them from fitting in. Whenpeople seem to share your ideas exactly, be wary: they are probably mirroringthem to charm you. The court of Queen Elizabeth I of England was full ofpolitical types. Elizabeth's solution was to keep her opinions quiet; on any issue,no one outside her inner circle knew where she stood. That made it hard forpeople to mirror her, to disguise their intentions behind a front of perfectagreement. Hers was a wise strategy.Another solution is to isolate the political moles--to give them no room tomaneuver within the organization. Marshall accomplished this by infusing thegroup with his spirit of efficiency; disrupters of that spirit stood out and couldquickly be isolated. In any event, do not be naive. Once you identify the moles inthe group, you must act fast to stop them from building a power base from whichto destroy your authority.Finally, pay attention to the orders themselves--their form as well as theirsubstance. Vague orders are worthless. As they pass from person to person, theyare hopelessly altered, and your staff comes to see them as symbolizinguncertainty and indecision. It is critical that you yourself be clear about what youwant before issuing your orders. On the other hand, if your commands are toospecific and too narrow, you will encourage people to behave like automatonsand stop thinking for themselves--which they must do when the situationrequires it. Erring in neither direction is an art.Here, as in so much else, Napoleon was the master. His orders were full ofjuicy details, which gave his officers a feel for how his mind worked while alsoallowing them interpretive leeway. He would often spell out possiblecontingencies, suggesting ways the officer could adapt his instructions ifnecessary. Most important, he made his orders inspiring. His languagecommunicated the spirit of his desires. A beautifully worded order has extrapower; instead of feeling like a minion, there only to execute the wishes of adistant emperor, the recipient becomes a participant in a great cause. Bland,bureaucratic orders filter down into listless activity and imprecise execution.Clear, concise, inspiring orders make officers feel in control and fill troops with fighting spirit. Authority: Better one bad general than two good ones.--Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821)REVERSALNo good can ever come of divided leadership. If you are ever offered a positionin which you will have to share command, turn it down, for the enterprise willfail and you will be held responsible. Better to take a lower position and let theother person have the job.It is always wise, however, to take advantage of your opponent's faultycommand structure. Never be intimidated by an alliance of forces against you: ifthey share leadership, if they are ruled by committee, your advantage is morethan enough. In fact, do as Napoleon did and seek out enemies with that kind ofcommand structure. You cannot fail to win. SEGMENT YOUR FORCESTHE CONTROLLED-CHAOS STRATEGYThe critical elements in war are speed and adaptability--the ability to