left Coltrane cold. He now wanted toreturn to melody, to something freer and more expressive, and he found himselfgoing back to the music of his early childhood—Negro spirituals. In 1960 hecreated his first huge popular hit, an extended version of the song “My FavoriteThings,” from the smash Broadway musical The Sound of Music. He played it onthe soprano saxophone in a style that seemed almost East Indian, blending in aswell a touch of Negro spirituals, all with his strange propensity for chordchanges and rapid scales. It was a weird blend of experimental and popularmusic, unlike anything anyone else had done.Coltrane was now like an alchemist, involved in an almost impossible questto discover the essence of music itself, to make it express more deeply anddirectly the emotions he was feeling, to connect it to the unconscious. Andslowly, it seemed he was getting closer to his goal. His ballad “Alabama,”written in response to the 1963 bombing by the Ku Klux Klan of a church inBirmingham, Alabama, seemed to capture something essential about the momentand the mood of the time. It seemed to be the incarnation of sadness and despair.A year later, his album A Love Supreme appeared. It was recorded in one day,and making the music was like a religious experience for him. It had everythinghe was aiming for—extended movements that went as long as it felt natural to doso (something novel in jazz), and a trance-like effect on listeners, while stillcontaining the hard-driving sound and technical brilliance he was known for. Itwas an album that expressed that spiritual element he could not put into words. Itbecame a sensation, drawing a whole new audience to his music.People who saw his live performances in this period proclaimed theuniqueness of the experience. As the saxophonist Joe McPhee described it, “Ithought I was going to die from the emotion … I thought I was just going toexplode right in the place. The energy level kept building up, and I thought, Godalmighty, I can’t take it.” Audiences would go wild, some people screaming atthe intensity of the sound. It seemed as if the music from Coltrane’s saxophonewas a direct translation of some deep mood or feeling of his, and that he couldmove the audience in whatever direction he wanted with it. No other jazz artisthad such an effect on audiences.As part of the Coltrane phenomenon, every change he introduced into jazzwas suddenly adopted as the latest trend—extended songs, larger groups,tambourines and bells, Eastern sounds, and so on. The man who had spent ten tambourines and bells, Eastern sounds, and so on. The man who had spent tenlong years absorbing the styles of all forms of music and jazz now had becomethe trendsetter for others. Coltrane’s meteoric career, however, was cut short in1967, when he died at the age of forty of liver cancer. In Coltrane’s era jazz had become a celebration of individuality. Players likeCharlie Parker made the jazz solo the centerpiece of any work. In the solo, theplayer would pour out his own unique voice.