the style of warfare--defensive, mobile, ruthlesslyaggressive--that best suits it. You must bring the group together around thisbelief. Then, through training and creative exercises, you must deepen its holdon them, infuse it into their blood. Now, when you unleash your corps on theirmissions, you can trust their decisions and feel confident in your power tocoordinate them.The Mongol hordes led by Genghis Khan in the first half of the thirteenthcentury were perhaps the closest precursors to Napoleon's corps. Genghis, whopreached a philosophy of Mongol superiority, was a master of mobility inwarfare. His segmented forces could disperse and concentrate in complicatedpatterns; the armies that faced them were shocked at how chaotic they seemed, so impossible to figure out, yet they maneuvered with amazing coordination.Mongol soldiers knew what to do, and when, without being told. For theirvictims the only explanation was that they were possessed by the devil.The sinister coordination of the Mongols, however, was actually the result ofrigorous training. Every winter in peacetime, Genghis would run the Great Hunt,a three-month-long operation in which he would scatter the entire Mongol armyalong an eighty-mile line in the steppes of Central Asia and what is nowMongolia. A flag in the ground hundreds of miles away marked the hunt'sendpoint. The line would advance, driving before it all the animals in its path.Slowly, in an intricately choreographed maneuver, the ends of the line wouldcurve to form a circle, trapping the animals within. (The hunt's endpoint wouldform the center of the circle.) As the circle tightened, the animals were killed;the most dangerous of them, the tigers, were left till last. The Great Huntexercised the Mongols' ability to communicate through signals at a distance,coordinate their movements with precision, know what to do in differentcircumstances, and act without waiting for orders. Even bravery became anexercise, when individual soldiers would have to take on a tiger. Throughhunting and a form of play, Genghis could instill his philosophy, developcohesion and trust among his men, and tighten his army's discipline.[Tom] Yawkey was thirty years old when he bought the Red Sox, a hopelesslybankrupt team that had won only forty-three games the previous season andaveraged only 2,365 paying customers. The ball club became his toy. Becausehe loved his players, he spoiled them rotten. And because he spoiled themrotten, they praised him to the skies.... There is a well-publicized exchange inwhich Bobby Doerr asks Tommy Henrich why the Red Sox weren't able tobeat the Yankees in big games. "Weren't we good enough?" Doerr asks. Itwasn't that they weren't good enough, Henrich answers. "Your owner was toogood to you. The Red Sox didn't have to get into the World Series to driveCadillacs. The Yankees did."... [The Red Sox organization] was an amateuroperation...pitted against the toughest, most professional operation of alltime.HITTER: THE LIFE AND TURMOILS OF TED WILLIAMS, ED LINN, 1993In unifying your own hordes, find exercises to increase your troops'knowledge of and trust in each other. This will develop implicit communicationskills between them and their intuitive sense of what to do next. Time will notthen be wasted