to put their ambition and selfishness ondisplay. The way to do this is to pique their latent but powerful insecurities--make them worry that people do not like them, that their position is unstable,that their path to the top is not clear. Perhaps, like Grant, you can take action thatthwarts their plans in some way while hiding your own beneath a veneer ofpoliteness. You are making them feel defensive and disrespected. All the dark,ugly emotions they strive so hard to hide will boil up to the surface; they willtend to lash out, overplaying their hand. Work to make them grow emotional andlose their habitual cool. The more they reveal of themselves, the more they willalienate other people, and isolation will be their doom. 2. The Academie Francaise, founded by Cardinal Richelieu in 1635, is a highlyselect body of France's forty most learned scholars, whose task it is to overseethe purity of the French language. It was customary in the early years of theacademy that when a seat became empty, potential members would petition tofill it, but on the occasion of a vacant seat in 1694, King Louis XIV decided togo against protocol and nominated the bishop of Noyon. Louis's nominationcertainly made sense. The bishop was a learned man, well respected, anexcellent orator, and a fine writer.The bishop, however, had another quality as well: an incredible sense ofself-importance. Louis was amused by this failing, but most in the court found it downright insufferable: the bishop had a way of making almost everyone feelinferior, in piety, erudition, family pedigree--whatever they had.Because of his rank, for instance, the bishop was accorded the rare privilegeof being able to have his coach drive up to the front door of the royal residence,while most others had to get out and walk from the entrance doors of thedriveway. One time the archbishop of Paris was walking along the drivewaywhen the bishop of Noyon passed. From his carriage the bishop waved andsignaled for the archbishop to approach him. The archbishop expected him toalight and accompany him to the palace on foot. Instead Noyon had the carriageslow down and continued his drive to the front door, leading the archbishopthrough the window by the arm, as if he were a dog on a leash, meanwhilechatting away superciliously. Then, once the bishop did get out of the carriageand the two men started up the grand staircase, Noyon dropped the archbishop asif he were nobody. Almost everyone in the court had a story like this one to tell,and they all nursed secret grudges against the bishop.With Louis's approval, however, it was impossible to not vote Noyon intothe academy. The king further insisted that his courtiers attend the inaugurationof the bishop, since this was his first nominee to the illustrious institution. At theinauguration, customarily, the nominee would deliver a speech, which would beanswered by the academy's director--who at the time was a bold and witty mancalled the abbe de Caumartin. The abbe could not stand the bishop butparticularly disliked his florid style of writing.