through action.Unleashing the masterful mind within, you will be at the vanguard of those whoare exploring the extended limits of human willpower. In many ways, the movement from one level of intelligence to another can beconsidered as a kind of ritual of transformation. As you progress, old ideas andperspectives die off; as new powers are unleashed, you are initiated into higherlevels of seeing the world. Consider Mastery as an invaluable tool in guiding youthrough this transformative process. The book is designed to lead you from thelowest levels to the highest. It will help to initiate you into the first step—discovering your Life’s Task, or vocation, and how to carve out a path that willlead you to its fulfillment on various levels. It will advise you how to exploit tothe fullest your apprenticeship—the various strategies of observation andlearning that will serve you best in this phase; how to find the perfect mentors;how to decipher the unwritten codes on political behavior; how to cultivatesocial intelligence; and finally, how to recognize when it is time to leave theapprenticeship nest and strike out for yourself, entering the active, creativephase.It will show you how to continue the learning process on a higher level. Itwill reveal timeless strategies for creative problem solving, for keeping yourmind fluid and adaptable. It will show you how to access more unconscious andprimitive layers of intelligence, and how to endure the inevitable barbs of envythat will come your way. It will spell out the powers that will come to youthrough mastery, pointing you in the direction of that intuitive, inside feel foryour field. Finally, it will initiate you into a philosophy, a way of thinking thatwill make it easier to follow this path.The ideas in the book are based on extensive research in the fields of neuro-and cognitive science, studies on creativity, as well as the biographies of thegreatest Masters in history. These include Leonardo da Vinci, the Zen MasterHakuin, Benjamin Franklin, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Johann Wolfgang vonGoethe, the poet John Keats, the scientist Michael Faraday, Charles Darwin,Thomas Edison, Albert Einstein, Henry Ford, the writer Marcel Proust, thedancer Martha Graham, the inventor Buckminster Fuller, the jazz artist John dancer Martha Graham, the inventor Buckminster Fuller, the jazz artist JohnColtrane, and the pianist Glenn Gould.To make it clear how this form of intelligence can be applied to the modernworld, nine contemporary Masters have been interviewed at length as well. Theyare neuroscientist V. S. Ramachandran; anthropologist-linguist Daniel Everett;computer engineer, writer, and tech-startup mastermind Paul Graham; architect-engineer Santiago Calatrava; former boxer and now trainer Freddie Roach;robotics engineer and green technology designer Yoky Matsuoka; visual artistTeresita Fernández; professor of animal husbandry and industrial designerTemple Grandin; and U.S. Air Force fighter pilot ace Cesar Rodriguez.The life stories of these various contemporary figures dispel the notion thatmastery is somehow passé or elitist. They come from all different backgrounds,social classes, and ethnicities. The power they have achieved is clearly the resultof effort and process, not genetics or privilege. Their stories also reveal howsuch mastery can be adapted to