one of them was cut from the program. It was aruthless, whittling-down process. It looked as if he would be the next one to becut, and such cuts were final. Once he was allowed back into the plane, he wouldonly have a few chances to prove himself. He had already been trying hishardest. Where had he gone wrong? Perhaps unconsciously, he had becomeintimidated and afraid of the flying process itself. Now he was more afraid offailing.He thought back to his days in high school. Despite his relatively shortheight, he had managed to become the quarterback of his high school footballteam. Back then he had also experienced moments of doubt and even panic. Hehad discovered, however, that through rigorous training—mental and physical—he could overcome his fear and almost any deficiency in his skill level. Infootball practice, placing himself in circumstances that had made him feeluncertain had helped him to become familiar with the situation and not so afraid. uncertain had helped him to become familiar with the situation and not so afraid.What was necessary was to trust the process and the results that would comefrom more practice. This would have to be the way forward in his currentsituation.He tripled his time with the simulator, habituating his mind to the sensationof so many stimuli. He spent his off-hours visualizing himself in the cockpit,repeating the maneuvers he was weakest at. Once he was allowed back in theplane, he focused much harder, knowing he would have to make the most ofeach precious session. Whenever there was a chance to have more air time, forinstance when another student was sick, he grabbed it. Slowly, day by day, hefound a way to calm himself in the pilot seat and get a better handle on all of thecomplex operations. In the two weeks after being allowed back into the plane, hehad managed to rescue his position for the time being; he was now rankedsomewhere in the middle of the group.With ten weeks remaining in the program, Rodriguez took stock of thesituation. He had come too far not to succeed. He enjoyed the challenge, heloved flying, and now what he wanted more than anything in life was to becomea fighter pilot. That would mean graduating from the program near the very top.Among his group were several “golden boys”—young men who had a naturalflair for flying. They not only handled the intense pressures, they fed off ofthem. He was the opposite of a golden boy, but that had been the story of his life.He had succeeded through his determination before, and now it would have to bethe same. In these final weeks he was to train on the supersonic T-38, and heasked his new instructor, Wheels Wheeler, to work him to death—he had tomove up in the rankings and he was prepared to do whatever it took.Wheeler obliged him. He made Rodriguez repeat the same maneuver tentimes more than the golden boys, until he was physically sick. He homed in onall of Rodriguez’s flying weaknesses and made him practice