first realdefeat and began his advance toward Verona. Meanwhile d'Alvintzi himselfadvanced all the way to a point not far from Verona and was poised to fall on thecity from the east. As he pored over his maps, d'Alvintzi took pleasure in hisplan. If Napoleon sent more men to stop Davidovich, he would weaken Veronaagainst d'Alvintzi. If he tried to block d'Alvintzi's entrance from the east, hewould weaken Verona against Davidovich. If he sought reinforcements from histroops at Mantua, he would free up the 20,000 Austrian soldiers trapped thereand they would gobble him up from the south. D'Alvintzi also knew thatNapoleon's men were exhausted and hungry. Having fought for six monthswithout rest, they were at a breaking point. Not even a young genius likeNapoleon could escape this trap.A few days later, d'Alvintzi advanced to the village of Caldiero, at Verona'sdoorstep. There he inflicted another defeat on the French troops sent to stop him.After a string of victories, Napoleon had now lost two battles in a row; thependulum had swung against him.As d'Alvintzi prepared for his final pounce on Verona, he received confusingnews: against all prediction Napoleon had in fact divided his army in Verona, butinstead of sending parts of it against either d'Alvintzi or Davidovich, he hadmarched a sizable force somewhere to the southeast. The next day this armyappeared outside the town of Arcola. If the French crossed the river to Arcolaand advanced a few miles north, they would directly cross d'Alvintzi's line ofcommunications and of retreat, and they would be able to seize his supply depotsat Villa Nova. Having this large French army to his rear was more than alarming;d'Alvintzi was forced to forget about Verona for the moment and hastily marchedeast.He had retreated in the nick of time and was able to halt the French beforethey could cross the river and attack Villa Nova. For several days the two armiessettled into a fiercely contested battle for the bridge at Arcola. Napoleon himselfled several charges and was nearly killed. A portion of the troops blockingMantua were dispatched north to reinforce the French at Arcola, but d'Alvintzi'sarmy hunkered down, and the battle turned into a stalemate.On the third day of fighting, d'Alvintzi's soldiers--their lines thinned byrelentless French attacks--were preparing for another battle for the bridge whenthey suddenly heard trumpets blaring from their southern flank. A French forcehad somehow crossed the river below the bridge and was marching toward theAustrian flank at Arcola. The sound of trumpets was quickly replaced by shoutsand the whizzing of bullets. The sudden appearance of the French on their flankwas too much for the wearied Austrians; not waiting to see the size of the French force, they panicked and fled the scene. The French poured across the river.D'Alvintzi gathered up his men as best he could and managed to lead them eastto safety. But the battle for Verona was lost, and with it the doom of Mantua wassealed.Somehow Napoleon had managed to snatch victory from defeat. The battleof Arcola helped forge the legend of his invincibility.Now came