the time is appropriate. Inthis new age, those who follow a rigid, singular path in their youth often findthemselves in a career dead end in their forties, or overwhelmed with boredom.The wide-ranging apprenticeship of your twenties will yield the opposite—expanding possibilities as you get older.REVERSALIt might be imagined that certain people in history—the naturally gifted, thegeniuses—have either somehow bypassed the Apprenticeship Phase or havegreatly shortened it because of their inherent brilliance. To support such anargument, people will bring up the classic examples of Mozart and Einstein, whoseemed to have emerged as creative geniuses out of nowhere.With the case of Mozart, however, it is generally agreed among classicalmusic critics that he did not write an original and substantial piece of music untilwell after ten years of composing. In fact, a study of some seventy great classicalcomposers determined that with only three exceptions, all of the composers hadneeded at least ten years to produce their first great work, and the exceptions hadsomehow managed to create theirs in nine years.Einstein began his serious thought experiments at the age of sixteen. Tenyears later he came up with his first revolutionary theory of relativity. It isimpossible to quantify the time he spent honing his theoretical skills in those tenyears, but is not hard to imagine him working three hours a day on this particularproblem, which would yield more than 10,000 hours after a decade. What in factseparates Mozart and Einstein from others is the extreme youth with which theybegan their apprenticeships and the intensity with which they practiced,stemming from their total immersion in the subject. It is often the case that in our stemming from their total immersion in the subject. It is often the case that in ouryounger years we learn faster, absorb more deeply, and yet retain a kind ofcreative verve that tends to fade as we get older.There are no shortcuts or ways to bypass the Apprenticeship Phase. It is thenature of the human brain to require such lengthy exposure to a field, whichallows for complex skills to become deeply embedded and frees the mind up forreal creative activity. The very desire to find shortcuts makes you eminentlyunsuited for any kind of mastery. There is no possible reversal to this process.It’s like chopping down a huge tree of immense girth. You won’t accomplish it with oneswing of your axe. If you keep chopping away at it, though, and do not let up, eventually,whether it wants to or not, it will suddenly topple down. When that time comes, you couldround up everyone you could find and pay them to hold the tree up, but they wouldn’t beable to do it. It would still come crashing to the ground…. But if the woodcutter stoppedafter one or two strokes of his axe to ask the third son of Mr. Chang, “Why doesn’t this treefall?” And after three or four more strokes stopped again to ask the fourth son of Mr. Li,“Why doesn’t this tree fall?” he would never succeed in felling the tree. It is