de Calais area had beenmysteriously bought up. The pieces of a giant puzzle were coming together.Now only one question remained: when would it happen? As April turned toMay, Hitler was deluged with all kinds of conflicting reports, rumors, andsightings. The information was confusing, taxing his strained mind, but twonuggets of intelligence seemed to clarify the picture. First, a German agent inEngland reported that the Allies would attack Normandy, southeast of the Pas deCalais, between June 5 and 7. But the Germans had strong indications that thisman was operating as a double agent, and his report was clearly part of an Allieddisinformation campaign. The attack would probably be coming at the end ofJune or beginning of July, when the weather was generally more predictable.Then, later in May, a series of more reliable German spies spotted Britain's topgeneral, Sir Bernard Montgomery, in Gibraltar and then in Algiers. Montgomerywould certainly command a large part of any invading force. The invasion couldnot be imminent if he was so far away.On the night of June 5, Hitler pored over the maps. Maybe he was wrong--maybe the plan was for Normandy all along. He had to consider both options; hewould not be fooled in what might be the most decisive battle of his life. TheBritish were tricky; he had to keep his forces mobile in case it was Normandyafter all. He would not commit himself until he knew for sure. Reading theweather reports for the Channel--stormy that evening--he took his usual sleepingpill and went to bed.Early the next morning, Hitler woke to startling news: a massive invasionwas under way--in southern Normandy. A large armada had left England in themiddle of the night, and hundreds of parachutists had been dropped near theNormandy coast. As the day progressed, the reports became more exact: theAllies had landed on the beaches southeast of Cherbourg.A critical moment had come. If some of the forces stationed in the Pas deCalais were hurried to the beaches of Normandy, the Allies could be pinned andthrown back into the sea. This was the recommendation of Rommel andRunstedt, who anxiously awaited Hitler's approval. But through the night andinto the following day, Hitler hesitated. Then, just as he was on the verge ofsending reinforcements to Normandy, he received word of increased Allied activity in the FUSAG area. Was Normandy in fact a giant diversion? If hemoved his reserves there, would Patton immediately cross the Channel to the Pasde Calais? No, Hitler would wait to see if the attack was real. And so the dayswent by, with Rommel and Runstedt fuming at his indecision.After several weeks Hitler finally accepted that Normandy was the realdestination. But by then he was too late. The Allies had established a beachhead.In August they broke out of Normandy, sending the Germans into full retreat. ToHitler the disaster was yet another indication of the incompetence of thosearound him. He had no idea how deeply and decisively he had been fooled. Interpretation In trying to deceive Hitler about the Normandy invasions, theAllies were faced with