and Psycho (1960), for example, Hitchcock inserted mirrors inmany scenes; in Spellbound (1945) it was shots of ski tracks and other kinds ofparallel lines; the murder in Strangers on a Train (1951) was revealed throughits reflection in a pair of glasses. For Hitchcock, evidently, images like theserevealed his ideas of the doubleness in the human soul better than words did, buton paper this seemed somewhat contrived.On set, the producers of Hitchcock's films often watched in bewilderment asthe director moved the camera, not the actors, to stage his scenes. It seemed tomake no sense, as if he loved the technical side of filmmaking more than dialogand the human presence. Nor could editors fathom his obsession with sounds,colors, the size of the actors' heads within the frame, the speed with whichpeople moved--he seemed to favor these endless visual details over the storyitself.The letter set Cyrus thinking of the means by which he could most effectivelypersuade the Persians to revolt, and his deliberations led him to adopt thefollowing plan, which he found best suited to his purpose. He wrote on a rollof parchment that Astyages had appointed him to command the Persianarmy; then he summoned an assembly of the Persians, opened the roll in theirpresence and read out what he had written. "And now," he added, "I have anorder for you: every man is to appear on parade with a billhook."...The orderwas obeyed. All the men assembled with their billhooks, and Cyrus' nextcommand was that before the day was out they should clear a certain piece ofrough land full of thorn bushes, about eighteen or twenty furlongs square.This too was done, whereupon Cyrus issued the further order that they shouldpresent themselves again on the following day, after having taken a bath.Meanwhile Cyrus collected and slaughtered all his father's goats, sheep, andoxen in preparation for entertaining the whole Persian army at a banquet,together with the best wine and bread he could procure. The next day theguests assembled, and were told to sit down on the grass and enjoythemselves. After the meal Cyrus asked them which they preferred--yesterday's work or today's amusement; and they replied that it was indeed afar cry from the previous day's misery to their present pleasures. This was theanswer which Cyrus wanted; he seized upon it at once and proceeded to laybare what he had in mind. "Men of Persia," he said, "listen to me: obey myorders, and you will be able to enjoy a thousand pleasures as good as thiswithout ever turning your hands to menial labour; but, if you disobey, yesterday's task will be the pattern of innumerable others you will be forcedto perform. Take my advice and win your freedom. I am the man destined toundertake your liberation, and it is my belief that you are a match for theMedes in war as in everything else. It is the truth I tell you. Do not delay, butfling off the yoke of Astyages at once." The Persians had long resented theirsubjection to the Medes. At last they had found