fact, that the pope was infallible. He quoted varioustheological texts written over the centuries in support of this claim. He alsoattacked Luther personally, calling him a bastard and questioning his motives:perhaps the German priest was angling for a bishopric? Prieras concluded withthe words, "Whoever says that the Church of Rome may not do what it isactually doing in the manner of indulgences is a heretic." The warning was clearenough.[Colonel John] Boyd paid particular attention to the moral dimension and theeffort to attack an adversary morally by showing the disjuncture betweenprofessed beliefs and deeds. The name of the game for a moral design forgrand strategy is to use moral leverage to amplify one's spirit and strength while exposing the flaws of competing adversary systems. In the process, oneshould influence the uncommitted, potential adversaries and currentadversaries so that they are drawn toward one's philosophy and areempathetic toward one's success.THE MIND OF WAR: JOHN BOYD AND AMERICAN SECURITY, GRANTT. HAMMOND, 2001Leo had much on his mind during these years, including turmoil in theOttoman Empire and a plan to launch a new crusade, but Luther's response toPrieras got his attention right away. Luther wrote a text in which he mercilesslytook apart Prieras's writings--the church, he argued, had failed to answer hischarges and to base its arguments on Scripture. Unless its authority in grantingindulgences and excommunicating heretics was rooted in the Bible, it was notspiritual in nature but worldly, political, and that kind of authority could andshould be challenged. Luther published his text alongside Prieras's, allowingreaders to compare the two and come to their own conclusions. His directquotation of Prieras, his audacious and mocking tone, and his use of recentlydeveloped printing technology to spread his message far and wide--all this wasquite shocking and new to church officials. They were dealing with a clever anddangerous man. It was now clear to Leo that the war between the church andLuther was a war to the death.As the pope pondered how to get the German priest to Rome and try him asa heretic, Luther accelerated his campaign, continuing to publish at an alarmingrate, his tone ever more vitriolic. In An Open Letter to the Christian Nobility ofthe German Nation, he claimed that Rome had used its spurious authority tobully and cow the German people for centuries, turning Germany's kingdomsinto vassal states. The church, he said again, was a political power, not a spiritualone, and to prop up its worldly rule it had resorted to lies, forged documents,whatever means necessary. In On the Babylonian Captivity of the Church, herailed against the pope's lavish lifestyle, the whoring among the churchhierarchy, the blasphemous art Leo funded. The pope had gone so far as to havestaged an immoral and bawdy play by Machiavelli, called Mandragola, withinthe Vatican itself. Luther juxtaposed the righteous behavior advocated by thechurch with the way its cardinals actually lived. It was the pope and hisentourage, Luther charged, who were the real heretics, not he; in fact, the popewas the Antichrist.The central feature of the "exterior maneuver" is to