force to send for theirfamilies, so that life would be less harsh for them. Soon the wives and childrencame, along with their Indian servants. But where Macnaghten had imaginedthat the arrival of the soldiers' families would have a humanizing, civilizingeffect, it only alarmed the Afghans. Were the British planning a permanentoccupation? Everywhere the local people looked, there were representatives ofBritish interests, talking loudly in the streets, drinking wine, attending theatersand horse races--strange imported pleasures that they had introduced to thecountry. Now their families were making themselves at home. A hatred ofeverything English began to take root.THE AGING LION AND THE FOXA lion who was getting old and could no longer obtain his food by forcedecided that he must resort to trickery instead. So he retired to a cave and laydown pretending to be ill. Thus, whenever any animals came to his cave tovisit him, he ate them all as they appeared. When many animals haddisappeared, a fox figured out what was happening. He went to see the lionbut stood at a safe distance outside the cave and asked him how he was. "Oh,not very well," said the lion. "But why don't you come in?" But the fox said:"I would come inside if I hadn't seen that a lot of footprints are pointinginwards towards your cave but none are pointing out." Wise men note theindications of dangers and thus avoid them. FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C.There were those who warned Macnaghten about this, and to all of them hehad the same answer: everything would be forgotten and forgiven when the armyleft Afghanistan. The Afghans were childlike, emotional people; once they feltthe benefits of English civilization, they would be more than grateful. Onematter, however, did worry the envoy: the British government was unhappyabout the increasing expense of the occupation. Macnaghten would have to dosomething to cut costs, and he knew just where to begin.Most of the mountain passes through which Afghanistan's main trade routesran were held by the Ghilzye tribes, who for many years, over the lives of manydifferent rulers of the country, had been paid a stipend to keep the passes open.Macnaghten decided to halve this stipend. The Ghilzyes responded by blocking the passes, and elsewhere in the country tribes sympathetic to the Ghilzyesrebelled. Macnaghten, caught off guard, tried to put these rebellions down, buthe did not take them too seriously, and worried officers who told him to respondmore vigorously were rebuked for overreacting. Now the British army wouldhave to stay indefinitely.The situation deteriorated quickly. In October 1841 a mob attacked the homeof a British official and killed him. In Kabul local chiefs began to conspire toexpel their British overlords. Shah Soojah panicked. For months he had beggedMacnaghten to let him capture and kill his main rivals, an Afghan ruler'straditional method of securing his position. Macnaghten had told him that acivilized country did not use murder to solve its political problems. The shahknew that the Afghans respected strength and authority, not "civilized" values; tothem his failure to deal with his enemies