of the idea of a symbolic calculation, as in pokeror the potlatch: minimum stake, maximum result. This is exactly what theterrorists have accomplished with their attack on Manhattan, whichillustrates rather well the theory of chaos: an initial shock, provokingincalculable consequences.THE SPIRIT OF TERRORISM, JEAN BAUDRILLARD, 2002The French writer Raymond Aron defines terrorism as an act of violencewhose psychological impact far exceeds its physical one. This psychologicalimpact, however, then translates into something physical--panic, chaos, politicaldivision--all of which makes the terrorists seem more powerful than they are inreality. Any effective counterstrategy must take this into consideration. In theaftermath of a terrorist blow, what is most essential is stopping the psychologicalripple effect. And the effort here must begin with the leaders of the country or group under attack.In 1944, near the end of World War II, the city of London was subjected to afierce campaign of terror from Germany's V-1 and V-2 rockets, an act ofdesperation that Hitler hoped would spread internal division and paralyze thewill of the British public to continue the war. Over six thousand people werekilled, many more were injured, and millions of homes were damaged ordestroyed. But instead of allowing despondency and worry to set in, PrimeMinister Winston Churchill turned the bombing campaign to his advantage as anopportunity to rally and unify the British people. He designed his speeches andpolicies to calm panic and allay anxiety. Instead of drawing attention to the V-1attacks, or to the more dreaded V-2s, he emphasized the need to stay resolved.The English would not give Germany the satisfaction of seeing them bow tosuch terror.In general, the most effective response to unconventional provocation is theleast response: do as little as possible and that cunningly adjusted to thearena. Do no harm. Deny one's self, do less rather than more. These areuncongenial to Americans who instead desire to deploy great force, quickly,to achieve a swift and final result. What is needed is a shift in the perceptionof those responsible in Washington: less can be more, others are not like us,and a neat and tidy world is not worth the cost.DRAGONWARS, J. BOWYER BELL, 1999In 1961, when President Charles de Gaulle of France faced a vicious right-wing terror campaign by French forces in Algeria opposed to his plan to grantthe colony its independence, he used a similar strategy: he appeared ontelevision to say that the French could not surrender to this campaign, that thecosts in lives were relatively small compared to what they had recently sufferedin World War II, that the terrorists were few in number, and that to defeat themthe French must not succumb to panic but must simply unite. In both these cases,a leader was able to provide a steadying influence, a ballast against the latenthysteria felt by the threatened citizenry and stoked by the media. The threat wasreal, Churchill and de Gaulle acknowledged; security measures were beingtaken; but the important thing was to channel public emotions away from fearand into something positive. The leaders turned the attacks into rallying points,using them to unite a fractured