sadunto death--this is the fate of those who depend upon an inner accord with other persons whom they love.... THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.InterpretationKing Louis XI would eventually become known as the Spider King, infamousfor the elaborate webs he would weave to ensnare his opponents. His genius wasto think far ahead and plot an indirect path to his goals--and his greatest goal wasto transform France from a feudal state into a unified great power. Burgundy washis largest obstacle, and one he could not meet head-on: his army was weakerthan Charles's, and he did not want to provoke a civil war. Before he becameking, though, Louis had fought a short campaign against the Swiss and had seenthe brutal efficiency with which their phalanxes fought and how they used theirmountainous terrain to perfect advantage. He thought them unbeatable in war.Louis formed a plan to bait Charles into invading the cantons, where his militarymachine would be destroyed.The strands of Louis's web were finely woven. First, he spent years courtingthe Swiss, forging bonds that blinded them to his ulterior purpose. This alliancealso befuddled the arrogant duke, who could not imagine how Louis planned tomake use of such an ally. The king also knew that by getting the Swiss to invadeBurgundy in 1474, he would make the duke so enraged as to lose all patience inhis desire for revenge.When Edward landed at Calais, the king had foreseen the invasion and wasready for it. Instead of trying to fight off this mighty opponent, he worked tocoax the English king away from his alliance with Burgundy by appealing to hisself-interest: without risking a single battle so far from home, Edward wouldreceive a financial payment too handsome to refuse. Again thinking far inadvance, Louis knew that when he eventually swallowed up the wealthy duchyof Burgundy, he would more than recoup what he was having to pay Edward.Abandoned by the English, Charles was isolated, yet still determined to avengethe invasion of Burgundy. At this point Louis moved to sign a treaty with theduke, getting rid of the last possible obstacle in Charles's path to the Swisscantons. This new treaty would infuriate his Swiss friends, but what did Louiscare? Friendship meant little to him; the Swiss would fight to defend their landwith or without him. Patient and clear about his goals, Louis used alliances as aform of bloodless warfare, crushing his opponents by getting others to do hiswork for him. Almost all of us instinctively understand the importance of allies. Becausewe operate by feel and emotion more often than by strategy, however, wefrequently make the worst kinds of alliances. A common mistake is to think thatthe more allies we have, the better; but quality is more important than quantity.Having numerous allies increases the chances we will become entangled in otherpeople's wars. Going to the other extreme, we sometimes think a single powerfulally is all we need; but allies like that tend to get what they can from us and thendrop us when our usefulness is exhausted, just