sake of theUnion cause, McClernand should subordinate himself to Grant.McClernand was crushed. He could not figure out what he had done or howit had all gone wrong. Bitter and frustrated, he continued to serve under Grantbut questioned his boss's abilities to anyone who would listen, includingjournalists. In June 1863, after enough negative articles had been printed, Grantfinally fired him. McClernand's military career was over, and with it his dreamsof personal glory.InterpretationFrom the moment he met John McClernand, General Grant knew he had atroublemaker on his hands. McClernand was the type of man who thought onlyof his own career--who would steal other people's ideas and plot behind theirbacks for the sake of personal glory. But Grant would have to be careful:McClernand was popular with the public, a charmer. So when Grant figured outon his own that McClernand was trying to beat him to Vicksburg, he did notconfront him or complain. Instead he took action.Knowing that McClernand had an oversensitive ego, Grant recognized that itwould be relatively easy to push the man's buttons. By taking over hissubordinate's recruits (technically in his department anyway) while apparentlycovering his bases in the telegram, he forced McClernand into a rash responsethat seemed like insubordination to other military men and made it clear how farhe was using the war for personal purposes. Once McClernand had rushed totake his troops back from Sherman, Grant stood aside. He knew that a man likethis--vain and obnoxious--would irritate the hell out of his brother officers; theywould inevitably complain about him to Grant, who, as a responsible officer,would have to pass the complaints upward, apparently without personal feelingsin play. Treating McClernand politely while indirectly checkmating him, Grantfinally got him to overreact in the worst possible way, with his letters to Lincolnand Stanton. Grant knew that Lincoln was tired of squabbling within the Unionhigh command. While Grant could be seen working quietly to perfect his plansfor taking Vicksburg, McClernand was acting petty and throwing tantrums. Thedifference between the two men was all too clear. With this battle won, Grantrepeated it, letting McClernand hang himself with his unwise complaints to thepress. There are other ways to fray nerves. During the Gulf War, President Bushkept pronouncing the name of the Iraqi leader as "SAD-am," which looselymeans "shoeshine boy." On Capitol Hill, the ritual mispronunciation of amember's name is a time-tested way to rattle opponents or haze newcomers.Lyndon Johnson was a master of the practice. When Johnson was Senatemajority leader, writes J. McIver Weatherford, he applied it with juniormembers who voted the wrong way: "While slapping the young chap on theback and telling him he understood, Johnson would break his name intoshreds as a metaphorical statement of what would happen if the disloyaltypersisted."THE ART OF POLITICAL WARFARE, JOHN PITNEY, JR., 2000You will often come across McClernands in your daily battles--people whoare outwardly charming but treacherous behind the scenes. It does no good toconfront them directly; they are proficient at the political game. But a subtle one-up campaign can work wonders.Your goal is to get these rivals