through the eastern mountain pass ofAllifae, and Fabius had noticed that he never left by the same route he entered.Although Fabius kept a sufficiently large Roman garrison at Allifae just in case,he reinforced the other passes in greater numbers. The beast, he thought, wascaged. Eventually Hannibal's supplies would run out, and he would be forced totry to break through. Fabius would wait.In the weeks to come, Hannibal sent his cavalry north, perhaps trying tobreak out in that direction. He also plundered the richest farms in the area.Fabius saw through his tricks: he was trying to bait the Romans into a battle ofhis choice. But Fabius was determined to fight on his own terms, and only whenthe enemy tried to retreat from the trap. Anyway, he knew Hannibal would try tobreak through to the east, the only direction that afforded him a clean break, intocountry the Romans did not control.One night the Roman soldiers guarding the pass at Allifae saw sights andheard sounds that made them think they were losing their minds: an enormousarmy, signaled by thousands of torches, seemed to be heading up the pass,covering its slopes, accompanied by loud bellowing sounds as if possessed bysome evil demon. The army seemed irresistible--far larger than the maximumestimate of Hannibal's strength. Afraid that it would climb above them andsurround them, the Romans fled from their garrison, abandoning the pass, tooscared even to look behind them. And a few hours later, Hannibal's army camethrough, escaping from Fabius's cordon.No Roman leader could figure out what Hannibal had conjured up on theslopes that night--and by the following year Fabius was out of power. The consulTerentius Varro burned to avenge the disgrace of Allifae. The Carthaginianswere encamped near Cannae, in southeastern Italy not far from modern Bari.Varro marched to face them there, and as the two armies arrayed themselves in ranks to meet in battle, he could only have felt supremely confident: the terrainwas clear, the enemy was in full view, there could be no hidden armies or last-minute tricks--and the Romans outnumbered the Carthaginians by two to one.The battle began. At first the Romans seemed to have the edge: the center ofthe Carthaginian line proved surprisingly weak and easily gave ground. TheRomans attacked this center with force, hoping to break through and indeedpushing forward--when, to their shock and horror, they looked behind them andsaw the two outer ends of the Carthaginian lines moving around to encirclethem. They were trapped in a lethal embrace; it was a slaughter. Cannae wouldgo down in history as Rome's most devastating and humiliating defeat.The war with Hannibal would drag on for years. Carthage never sent him thereinforcements that might have turned the tide, and the much larger and morepowerful Roman army was able to recover from its many defeats at his hands.But Hannibal had earned a terrifying reputation. Despite their superior numbers,the Romans became so frightened of Hannibal that they avoided battle with himlike the plague.InterpretationHannibal must be considered the ancient master of the military art of theunorthodox. In attacking