to recognize immediately its worth and exploit it fully.Under Watt’s guidance, his knowledge became more practical. But that sameradar that directed him to the shop and to this book now pointed him somewhereelse. The knowledge he had gained was still too diffused and disconnected. Heintuited that the only way to transform it into something useful was to find aliving mentor.Once he secured Davy as his man, he threw himself into the relationship withthe same focus that he had brought to everything else. Serving under Davy,Faraday learned all of the secrets of chemistry and electricity that the Master hadgleaned throughout his life. He practiced with these ideas in the laboratory—mixing chemicals for Davy and doing his own experiments. In the process, heabsorbed Davy’s patterns of thinking, of approaching chemical analysis andexperimentation. His knowledge became increasingly active.After eight years, this interactive dynamic yielded one of the greatdiscoveries of science—the uncovering of the secret of electromagnetism.Faraday’s own studies and what he had learned from Davy became transformedinto creative energy, a form of gold. If he had stayed on the path of self-apprenticeship out of fear or insecurity, he would have remained a bookbinder—miserable and unfulfilled. Through the alchemy of intense mentorship hetransformed himself into one of the most creative scientists in history.Certainly religion played an important role in Faraday’s education. Becausehe believed that everything in the universe was alive with God’s presence, hetended to animate whatever he encountered, including the books he read and thephenomenon of electricity itself. Since he saw these things as alive, he engagedwith them on a deeper level, which intensified the learning process. This way oflooking at the world, however, transcends religion and contains great power forall of us in our apprenticeships. We too can see the subjects that we study aspossessing a kind of vital spirit with which we must interact, and which we mustunderstand from the inside out. As with Faraday, this attitude will intensify ourlevel of engagement with what we are learning.To initially entice the right Master to serve as your mentor, you will want tomix in a strong element of self-interest. You have something tangible andpractical to offer them, in addition to your youth and energy. Before he had evermet him, Davy was aware of Faraday’s work ethic and organizational skills.That alone made him a desirable assistant. Considering this, you may not want togo in search of mentors until you have acquired some elementary skills anddiscipline that you can rely upon to interest them. Almost all Masters and people of power suffer from too many demands ontheir time and too much information to absorb. If you can demonstrate the abilityto help them organize themselves on these fronts to a degree that others cannot,it will be much easier to get their attention and interest them in the relationship.Do not shy away from anything menial or secretarial. You want person-to-person access, however you can get it. Once you establish a relationship, youwill find other ways to continually hook them through their self-interest. Try tosee the world through