scene seemed to flow with unexpected naturalness. Now theyknew what it was like to be tied together; they had felt the awkwardness, so therewas no need to act it. It came from within.Four years later Hitchcock made Rebecca, with Joan Fontaine and LaurenceOlivier. Fontaine, at twenty-one, was taking her first leading role and was horribly nervous about playing opposite Olivier, who was widely recognized asan actor of genius. Another director might have eased her insecurities, butHitchcock was seemingly doing the opposite. He chose to pass along gossipfrom the rest of the cast and crew: no one thought she was up to the job, he toldher, and Olivier had really wanted his wife, Vivien Leigh, to get her part.Fontaine felt terrified, isolated, unsure--exactly the qualities of her character inthe film. She hardly needed to act. And her memorable performance in Rebeccawas the start of a glorious career.When Hitchcock made The Paradine Case, in 1947, his leading lady, AnnTodd, was appearing in her first Hollywood movie and found it hard to relax. Soin the silence on set before the director called, "Action!" Hitchcock would tellher a particularly salacious story that would make her laugh or gasp in shock.Before one scene in which she had to lie on a bed in an elegant nightgown,Hitchcock suddenly jumped on her, yelling, "Relax!" Antics like this made iteasy for her to let go of her inhibitions and be more natural.When you are trying to communicate and can't find the point in theexperience of the other party at which he can receive and understand, then,you must create the experience for him. I was trying to explain to two stafforganizers in training how their problems in their community arose becausethey had gone outside the experience of their people: that when you gooutside anyone's experience not only do you not communicate, you causeconfusion. They had earnest, intelligent expressions on their faces and wereverbally and visually agreeing and understanding, but I knew they reallydidn't understand and that I was not communicating. I had not got into theirexperience. So I had to give them an experience.RULES FOR RADICALS, SAUL D. ALINSKY, 1971When cast and crew were tired on set, or when they'd gotten too casual andwere chatting rather than concentrating on their work, Hitchcock would neveryell or complain. Instead he might smash a lightbulb with his fist or throw histeacup against a wall; everyone would quickly sober up and recover his or herfocus.Clearly Hitchcock mistrusted language and explanation, preferring action towords as a way of communicating, and this preference extended to the form andcontent of his films. That gave his screenwriters a particularly hard time; afterall, putting the film into words was their job. In story meetings Hitchcock woulddiscuss the ideas he was interested in--themes like people's doubleness, theircapacity for both good and evil, the fact that no one in this world is truly innocent. The writers would produce pages of dialog expressing these ideaselegantly and subtly, only to find them edited out in favor of actions and images.In Vertigo (1958)