many, Napoleon was more than a great general; he was a genius, a godof war. Not everyone was impressed, though: there were Prussian generals whothought he had merely been lucky. Where Napoleon was rash and aggressive,they believed, his opponents had been timid and weak. If he ever faced the Prussians, he would be revealed as a great fake.Among these Prussian generals was Friedrich Ludwig, prince of Hohenlohe-Ingelfingen (1746-1818). Hohenlohe came from one of Germany's oldestaristocratic families, one with an illustrious military record. He had begun hiscareer young, serving under Frederick the Great (1712-86) himself, the man whohad single-handedly made Prussia a great power. Hohenlohe had risen throughthe ranks, becoming a general at fifty--young by Prussian standards.To Hohenlohe success in war depended on organization, discipline, and theuse of superior strategies developed by trained military minds. The Prussiansexemplified all of these virtues. Prussian soldiers drilled relentlessly until theycould perform elaborate maneuvers as precisely as a machine. Prussian generalsintensely studied the victories of Frederick the Great; war for them was amathematical affair, the application of timeless principles. To the generalsNapoleon was a Corsican hothead leading an unruly citizens' army. Superior inknowledge and skill, they would outstrategize him. The French would panic andcrumble in the face of the disciplined Prussians; the Napoleonic myth would liein ruins, and Europe could return to its old ways.In August 1806, Hohenlohe and his fellow generals finally got what theywanted: King Friedrich Wilhelm III of Prussia, tired of Napoleon's brokenpromises, decided to declare war on him in six weeks. In the meantime he askedhis generals to come up with a plan to crush the French.Hohenlohe was ecstatic. This campaign would be the climax of his career.He had been thinking for years about how to beat Napoleon, and he presentedhis plan at the generals' first strategy session: precise marches would place thearmy at the perfect angle from which to attack the French as they advancedthrough southern Prussia. An attack in oblique formation--Frederick the Great'sfavorite tactic--would deliver a devastating blow. The other generals, all in theirsixties and seventies, presented their own plans, but these too were merelyvariants on the tactics of Frederick the Great. Discussion turned into argument;several weeks went by. Finally the king had to step in and create a compromisestrategy that would satisfy all of his generals.He [Baron Antoine-Henri de Jomini] --often quite arbitrarily--presses [thedeeds of Napoleon] into a system which he foists on Napoleon, and, in doingso, completely fails to see what, above all, really constitutes the greatness ofthis captain--namely, the reckless boldness of his operations, where, scoffingat all theory, he always tried to do what suited each occasion best.FRIEDRICH VON BERNHARDI, 1849-1930 A feeling of exuberance swept the country, which would soon relive theglory years of Frederick the Great. The generals realized that Napoleon knewabout their plans--he had excellent spies--but the Prussians had a head start, andonce their war machine started to move, nothing could stop it.On October 5, a few days before the king was to declare war, disturbingnews reached the generals. A reconnaissance mission revealed