a new war wasabout to break out between the badly damaged France and a powerful alliance ofRussia, Prussia, England, and Sweden. By this time the Austrian army hadgrown considerably; somehow Napoleon had to get his hands on it--but his spiesreported that Metternich had entered into secret agreement with the Allies.Surely this had to be some sort of ploy: how could the Austrian emperor fight hisson-in-law? Yet in a few weeks, it became official: unless France negotiated apeace, Austria would drop its mediating position and join the Allies.Napoleon could not believe what he was hearing. He traveled to Dresden fora meeting with Metternich, which took place on June 26. The moment he sawthe prince, he felt a shock: the friendly, nonchalant air was gone. In a rather coldtone, Metternich informed him that France must accept a settlement that wouldreduce it to its natural boundaries. Austria was obligated to defend its interestsand the stability of Europe. Suddenly it occurred to the emperor: Metternich hadbeen playing him all along, the family ties merely a ploy to blind him to Austrianrearmament and independence. "So I have perpetrated a very stupid piece offolly in marrying an archduchess of Austria?" Napoleon blurted out. "Since YourMajesty desires to know my opinion," Metternich replied, "I will candidly saythat Napoleon, the conqueror, has made a mistake."Napoleon refused to accept Metternich's dictated peace. In return Austriadropped its neutrality and joined the Allies, becoming their de facto militaryleader. And with Austria leading the way, they finally defeated Napoleon inApril 1814 and exiled him to the Mediterranean island of Elba. Interpretation Napoleon prided himself on his ability to gauge people'spsychology and use it against them, but in this case he was outwitted by a manfar superior at such a game. Metternich's modus operandi was the following: hewould quietly study his enemies from behind his smiling, elegant exterior, hisown apparent relaxation inviting them to open up. In his very first meeting withNapoleon, he saw a man straining to impress: he noticed that the bantamNapoleon walked on his toes, to look taller, and struggled to suppress hisCorsican accent. Later meetings only confirmed Metternich's impression of aman who craved acceptance as the social equal of Europe's aristocracy. Theemperor was insecure.This insight won, Metternich used it to craft the perfect counter-strategy: theoffer of marriage into the Austrian dynasty. To a Corsican, that would meaneverything, and it would blind Napoleon to a simple reality: for aristocrats likeMetternich and the Austrian emperor, family ties meant nothing compared to thesurvival of the dynasty itself.When Munenori was granted an audience with the shogun, he sat down, puthis hands on the tatami floor, as retainers always did to show their respect totheir master. Suddenly, Iemitsu thrust a spear at the "unsuspecting"Munenori--and was surprised to find himself lying flat on his back! Munenorihad sensed the shogun's intention before a move had been made, and sweptIemitsu's legs out from under him at the instant of the thrust.LIVES OF MASTER SWORDSMEN, MAKOTO SUGAWARA, 1988Metternich's genius was to recognize the appropriate target for his strategy:not