letter. The agent, under torture, assured them that his mission wasgenuine--because he believed it was; Meinhertzhagen had kept him out of the loop. The agent was not acting, so he was more than believable. The Germansquietly had the Arab shot.Agamemnon had sent Odysseus on a foraging expedition to Thrace, and whenhe came back empty-handed, Palamedes son of Nauplius upbraided him forhis sloth and cowardice. "It was not my fault," cried Odysseus, "that no corncould be found. If Agamemnon had sent you in my stead, you would have hadno greater success." Thus challenged, Palamedes set sail at once andpresently reappeared with a ship-load of grain.... After days of tortuousthought, Odysseus at last hit upon a plan by which he might be revenged onPalamedes; for his honour was wounded. He sent word to Agamemnon: "Thegods have warned me in a dream that treachery is afoot: the camp must bemoved for a day and a night." When Agamemnon gave immediate orders tohave this done, Odysseus secretly buried a sackfull of gold at the place wherePalamedes's tent had been pitched. He then forced a Phrygian prisoner towrite a letter, as if from Priam to Palamedes, which read: "The gold that Ihave sent is the price you asked for betraying the Greek camp." Having thenordered the prisoner to hand Palamedes this letter, Odysseus had him killedjust outside the camp, before he could deliver it. Next day, when the armyreturned to the old site, someone found the prisoner's corpse and took theletter to Agamemnon. Palamedes was court-martialled and, when he hotlydenied having received gold from Priam or anyone else, Odysseus suggestedthat his tent should be searched. The gold was discovered, and the wholearmy stoned Palamedes to death as a traitor.THE GREEK MYTHS, VOL. 2, ROBERT GRAVES, 1955No matter how good a liar you are, when you deceive, it is hard to becompletely natural. Your tendency is to try so hard to seem natural and sincerethat it stands out and can be read. That is why it is so effective to spread yourdeceptions through people whom you keep ignorant of the truth--people whobelieve the lie themselves. When working with double agents of this kind, it isalways wise to initially feed them some true information--this will establish thecredibility of the intelligence they pass along. After that they will be the perfectconduits for your lies. Shadows within shadows. Deceptive maneuvers are like shadows deliberatelycast: the enemy responds to them as if they were solid and real, which in and of itself is a mistake. In a sophisticated, competitive world, however, both sidesknow the game, and the alert enemy will not necessarily grasp at the shadow youhave thrown. So you have to take the art of deception to a level higher, castingshadows within shadows, making it impossible for your enemies to distinguishbetween fact and fiction. You make everything so ambiguous and uncertain,spread so much fog, that even if you are suspected of deceit, it does not matter--the truth cannot be unraveled from the lies, and all their suspicion gives them