to take his stand at the Ebro, Scipio advanced south byship and led a daring raid on New Carthage. This walled city was consideredimpregnable, but he timed his attack for the ebbing of the tide in a lagoon on thecity's north side; there his men were able to scale the walls relatively easily, andNew Carthage was taken. In one move, Scipio had produced a dramaticturnaround. Now the Romans commanded the central position in Spain; they hadthe money and supplies on which the Carthaginians in Spain depended; and theyhad Carthage's hostages, whom they now could use to stir revolt among theconquered tribes. Over the next few years, Scipio exploited this position andslowly brought Spain under Roman control.In 205 B.C., Scipio returned to Rome a hero--but Hannibal was still amenace in Italy's interior. Scipio now wanted to take the war to Africa, bymarching on Carthage itself. That was the only way to get Hannibal out of Italyand finally erase Carthage as a threat. But Fabius was still the commander incharge of Rome's strategy, and few saw the point of fighting Hannibal by wagingwar so far from him, and from Rome. Yet Scipio's prestige was high, and theRoman Senate finally gave him an army--a small, low-quality army--to use forhis campaign.Wasting no time on arguing his case, Scipio proceeded to make an alliancewith Masinissa, king of the Massyles, Carthage's neighbors. Masinissa wouldsupply him with a large and well-trained cavalry. Then, in the spring of 204B.C., Scipio sailed for Africa and landed near Utica, not far from Carthage.Initially surprised, the Carthaginians rallied and were able to pin Scipio's troopson a peninsula outside the town. The situation looked bleak. If Scipio couldsomehow advance past the enemy troops that blocked his path, he would enterthe heart of the enemy state and gain control of the situation, but that seemed an impossible task--he could not hope to fight his way past the tight Carthaginiancordon; trapped where he was, his supplies would eventually run out, forcinghim to surrender. Scipio bargained for peace but used the negotiations as a wayto spy on the Carthaginian army.Scipio's ambassadors told him that the enemy had two camps, one for itsown army and the other for its main ally, the Numidians, whose camp was ratherdisorganized, a swarm of reed huts. The Carthaginian camp was more orderlybut made of the same combustible materials. Over the next few weeks, Scipioseemed indecisive, first breaking off negotiations, then reopening them,confusing the Carthaginians. Then one night he made a sneak attack on theNumidian camp and set it on fire. The blaze spread quickly, and the Africansoldiers panicked, scattering in every direction. Awakened by the hubbub, theCarthaginians opened the gates to their own camp to come to their allies' rescue--but in the confusion the Romans were able to steal in and set fire to their campas well. The enemy lost half their army in this battle by night, the rest managingto retreat to Numidia and Carthage.Heracles did not return to Mycenae by a direct route. He first traversedLibya, whose King