if they were sitting still. Thiswould account for the impression they gave of looking like passengers in a trainviewing the passing landscape.Their sky chart was complemented by dozens of other signs they had learnedto read. In their apprenticeship system, young navigators would be taken to seaand made to float in the ocean for several hours. In this way, they could learn todistinguish the various currents by how they felt on their skin. After muchpractice, they could read these currents by lying down on the floor of the canoe.They had developed a similar sensitivity to winds, and could identify variouswind currents by how they moved the hairs on their head, or the sail on theoutrigger.Once they approached an island, they knew how to interpret the paths of landbirds, which left in the morning to fish or returned at dusk to their homes. Theycould read the changes in the phosphorescence of the water that indicatedcloseness to land, and they could gauge whether the clouds in the distance werereflecting land beneath them, or simply ocean. They could touch the water totheir lips, sensing any changes in temperature that indicated they wereapproaching an island. There were many more such indicators; the Islanders hadlearned to see everything in this environment as a potential sign.What was most remarkable was that the chief navigator hardly seemed to bepaying attention to this complex network of signs. Only an occasional glanceupward or downward would indicate any kind of reading that was going on.Apparently, Master navigators knew the sky chart so well that with the sight of Apparently, Master navigators knew the sky chart so well that with the sight ofone star in the sky they could immediately sense where all of the others werelocated. They had learned how to read the other navigational signs so well that itall had become second nature. They had a complete feel for this environment,including all of the variables that seemed to make it so chaotic and dangerous.As one Westerner put it, such Masters could travel hundreds of miles from islandto island as easily as an experienced cab driver could negotiate the labyrinthinestreets of London. At some point in history, the original navigators in this region must have felt agreat degree of fear as they confronted the need to travel to find other foodsources, realizing the tremendous dangers this involved. The ocean must haveseemed much more chaotic than the tiny patch of land on their islands. Theyslowly overcame this fear and evolved a system that was magnificently suited tothe environment they lived in. In this part of the world, the night sky isparticularly clear through much of the year, giving them the ability to use thechanging position of stars to great effect. Using smaller craft allowed them tomaintain closer contact with the water, which they had learned to read asaccurately as the undulating earth on their island. Imagining themselves asstationary and the islands as moving helped them keep track of their referencepoints and had a calming effect. They did not depend on a single