already be too late; theterritory is yours, a fait accompli. You can always claim you acted out of self-defense. Before people realize it, you have accumulated an empire.PIECEMEAL CONQUESTOn June 17, 1940, Winston Churchill, prime minister of England, received asurprise visit from the French general Charles de Gaulle. The Germans hadbegun their blitzkrieg invasion of the Low Countries and France a mere fiveweeks earlier, and they had advanced so far so fast that not only France's militarybut its government as well had already collapsed. The French authorities hadfled, either to parts of France not yet occupied by the Germans or to Frenchcolonies in North Africa. None, however, had fled to England--but here wasGeneral de Gaulle, a solitary exile seeking refuge and offering his services to theAllied cause.The two men had met before, when de Gaulle had briefly served as France'sundersecretary of state for war during the weeks of the blitzkrieg. Churchill hadadmired his courage and resolution at that difficult moment, but de Gaulle was astrange fellow. At the age of fifty, he had a somewhat undistinguished militaryrecord and could hardly be considered an important political figure. But healways acted as if he were at the center of things. And here he was now,presenting himself as the man who could help rescue France, although manyother Frenchmen could be considered more suitable for the role. Nevertheless,de Gaulle might be someone whom Churchill could mold and use for hispurposes.Within hours of de Gaulle's arrival in England, the French military sued forpeace with the Germans. Under the agreement the two nations worked out, theunoccupied parts of France were to be ruled by a French government friendly tothe invaders and based in Vichy. That same evening de Gaulle presented Churchill with a plan: Broadcasting on BBC Radio, he would address allFrenchmen still loyal to a free France and would urge them to not lose heart. Hewould also call on any who had managed to get to England to contact him.Churchill was reluctant: he did not want to offend the new French government,with which he might have to deal. But de Gaulle promised to say nothing thatcould be read as treachery to the Vichy government, and at the last minute hewas given permission.De Gaulle delivered the speech much as he had outlined it--except that heended it with the promise he would be back on the air the next day. This wasnews to Churchill, yet once the promise had been made, it might look bad tokeep de Gaulle off the air, and anything that would hearten the French duringthese dark days seemed worthwhile.In the next broadcast, de Gaulle was decidedly bolder. "Any Frenchman whostill has weapons," he announced, "has the absolute duty to continue theresistance." He even went so far as to instruct his fellow generals still in Franceto disobey the enemy. Those who rallied to him in England, he said, would formpart of a nation without territory to be called Free France and of a new army tobe called Fighting France, the spearhead of an eventual