slight, feminineappearance and her large-scale, imposing works was quite glaring, and peoplewould wonder how she managed to make such work, and who she really was.Intrigued by her character, and also by the way her beautifully crafted sculpturesseemed to appear out of nowhere, they saw her as alluringly mysterious, a mix ofhard and soft qualities, an anomaly, a magician with metal.With all of this scrutiny, Fernández suddenly became aware that she was nolonger a voyeur, watching others from a distance, but was at the center ofattention. The art world felt right to her. For the first time in her life she had thesensation of fitting in, and she wanted to hold on to this interest that others hadin her work. Now that she was thrust into a more public position, it would benatural for her to want to talk about herself and her experiences, but she intuitedthat it would be a mistake to deflate the powerful effect her work had on othersby suddenly revealing to everyone how many hours she had applied herself tothese sculptures, and how they were really the product of intense labor anddiscipline. Sometimes, she reasoned, what you do not reveal to people is all themore eloquent and powerful. She decided to go along with the image that othershad of her and her work. She would create an air of mystery around her, makingsure not to talk about her process, keeping details of her life hidden, and sure not to talk about her process, keeping details of her life hidden, andallowing people to project onto her their own fantasies.As she progressed in her career, however, something about the persona shehad created in her university years no longer felt appropriate. She noted anelement in her public personality that could play against her—if she were notcareful, people would judge her based on her physical appearance as anattractive young woman. They would not see her as a serious artist. Herelusiveness might seem like a cover for a lack of intelligence, as if she weremerely feeling her way through things, and not on a par with the heavy-hittingintellectuals in the field. It was a prejudice female artists had to deal with. Anyhint of being wishy-washy or inarticulate when it came to talking about her workcarried the danger of feeding the preconception that she was frivolous, merelydabbling in the arts. And so she slowly developed a new style that suited herwell—she would be assertive and speak with authority about the content of herwork, while still enveloping her work process in mystery. She was not weak orvulnerable, but in clear command of the subject. If male artists needed to seemserious and articulate, as a woman she would have to appear even more so. Herassertive tone was always dignified and respectful, but she made it clear she wasno lightweight.Over the years, as Teresita Fernández became a world-renowned conceptualartist working in all types of materials, she continued to play with herappearance and make it fit her changing circumstances. The stereotype for artistsis that they are disorganized