bring you to the heights of power. THE SECOND TRANSFORMATIONFrom the moment he was born, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756–91) wassurrounded by music. His father, Leopold, was a violinist and composer in thecourt of Salzburg, Austria, as well as a music instructor. All during the day,Wolfgang would hear Leopold and his students practicing in the house. In 1759,his seven-year-old sister Maria Anna began taking piano lessons from theirfather. She showed great promise and practiced at all hours. Wolfgang,enchanted by the simple melodies that she played, began to hum along to themusic; he would sometimes sit at the family’s harpsichord and try to imitatewhat his sister had played. Leopold could soon detect something unusual in hisson. For a three-year-old, the child had a remarkable memory for melody and animpeccable sense of rhythm, all without having had any instruction.Although he had never attempted to teach someone so young, Leopolddecided to begin teaching piano to Wolfgang when he turned four, and after onlya few sessions he realized the boy had other interesting qualities. Wolfganglistened more deeply than other students, his mind and body completelyabsorbed in the music. With such intensity of focus, he learned more quicklythan other children. Once when he was five years old, he stole a rathercomplicated exercise meant for Maria Anna, and within thirty minutes he couldplay it with ease. He had heard Maria Anna practice the piece, and rememberingit vividly, the moment he saw the notes on the page he could rapidly reproducethe music.This remarkable focus had its roots in something that Leopold saw almostfrom the beginning—the boy had an intense love of music itself. His eyes wouldlight up with excitement the moment Leopold laid out a new challenging piecefor him to conquer. If the piece was new and hard to figure out, he would attackit day and night with such tenacity that it would soon become part of hisrepertoire. At night, his parents would have to force him to stop practicing andsend him to bed. This love of practice only seemed to increase with the years.When it came time to play with other children, he would find a way to transforma simple game into something that involved music. His favorite game, however,was to take some piece he had been playing and improvise on it, giving it apersonal flair that was quite charming and inventive.From his earliest years, Wolfgang was exceptionally emotional and sensitive.His moods would swing wildly—he would be petulant one moment, highlyaffectionate the next. He had a perpetually anxious look on his face that would affectionate the next. He had a perpetually anxious look on his face that wouldonly disappear when he sat down at the piano; then he was in his element, losinghimself in the music.One day in 1762, as Leopold Mozart heard his two children playing a piecefor two pianos, an idea came to him. His daughter Maria Anna was a verytalented piano player in her own right, and Wolfgang was a veritable marvel.Together, they were like precious toys. They had a natural charisma, andWolfgang had