comes from the development of mirror neurons (see page 7), whichgives us the ability to place ourselves in the skin of another and imagine theirexperience. Through continual exposure to people and by attempting to thinkinside them we can gain an increasing sense of their perspective, but thisrequires effort on our part. Our natural tendency is to project onto other peopleour own beliefs and value systems, in ways in which we are not even aware.When it comes to studying another culture, it is only through the use of ourempathic powers and by participating in their lives that we can begin toovercome these natural projections and arrive at the reality of their experience.To do so we must overcome our great fear of the Other and the unfamiliarity oftheir ways. We must enter their belief and value systems, their guiding myths,their way of seeing the world. Slowly, the distorted lens through which we firstviewed them starts to clear up. Going deeper into their Otherness, feeling whatthey feel, we can discover what makes them different and learn about humannature. This applies to cultures, individuals, and even writers of books. AsNietzsche once wrote, “As soon as you feel yourself against me you have ceasedto understand my position and consequently my arguments! You have to be thevictim of the same passion.”7. Synthesize all forms of knowledge—The Universal Man/WomanJohann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749–1832) grew up in an unhappy home inFrankfurt, Germany. His father had a failed career in local politics that had lefthim embittered, and he had become estranged from his young wife. To make upfor his own lack of success, Johann’s father made certain that his son receivedthe finest education possible. He learned the arts, the sciences, numerouslanguages, various crafts, fencing, and dancing. But Johann found life in thehouse under the watchful eye of his father unbearable and stultifying. When hefinally left home to study at the university in Leipzig, it was as if he had been setfree from prison. All of his pent-up energies, his restlessness, his hunger forwomen and adventures, were suddenly released and he went wild.He lived the life of a dandy, dressing in the most fashionable clothes andseducing as many young women as he could find. He threw himself into the seducing as many young women as he could find. He threw himself into theintellectual life of Leipzig; he could be seen in all of the taverns arguing aboutthis or that philosophy with professors and fellow students. His ideas wentagainst the grain—he ranted against Christianity and yearned for the paganreligion of the ancient Greeks. As one professor noted, “It was the well-nighuniversal opinion that he had a slate loose in the upper story.”And then young Johann fell in love, and any remnant of self-control wasfinally gone. His letters to friends about this love affair caused them greatconcern. He swung from elation to deep depression, from adoration to distrust.He stopped eating. He proposed marriage, then broke it off. To many it lookedlike he was on the edge of madness. “I’m going downhill faster