powersin yourself that you never suspected.Second, you must let go of your need for comfort and security. Creativeendeavors are by their nature uncertain. You may know your task, but you arenever exactly sure where your efforts will lead. If you need everything in yourlife to be simple and safe, this open-ended nature of the task will fill you withanxiety. If you are worried about what others might think and about how yourposition in the group might be jeopardized, then you will never really createanything. You will unconsciously tether your mind to certain conventions, andyour ideas will grow stale and flat. If you are worried about failure or goingthrough a period of mental and financial instability, then you will violate thePrimary Law of the Creative Dynamic, and your worries will be reflected in theresults. Think of yourself as an explorer. You cannot find anything new if youare unwilling to leave the shore.Step Two: Creative StrategiesThink of the mind as a muscle that naturally tightens up over time unless it isconsciously worked upon. What causes this tightening is twofold. First, wegenerally prefer to entertain the same thoughts and ways of thinking becausethey provide us with a sense of consistency and familiarity. Sticking with thesame methods also saves us a lot of effort. We are creatures of habit. Second,whenever we work hard at a problem or idea, our minds naturally narrow theirfocus because of the strain and effort involved. This means that the further weprogress on our creative task, the fewer alternative possibilities or viewpoints wetend to consider.This tightening process afflicts all of us, and it is best to admit that you sharein this flaw. The only antidote is to enact strategies to loosen up the mind and letin alternative ways of thinking. This is not only essential for the creative process,but is also immensely therapeutic for our psyches. The following five strategies but is also immensely therapeutic for our psyches. The following five strategiesfor developing such flexibility have been distilled from the lessons and stories ofthe most creative Masters, past and present. It would be wise to adapt all of themat some point, stretching and loosening the mind in all directions.A. CULTIVATE NEGATIVE CAPABILITYIn 1817 the twenty-two-year-old poet John Keats wrote a letter to his brothers inwhich he explained his most recent thoughts on the creative process. The worldaround us, he wrote, is far more complex than we can possibly imagine. Withour limited senses and consciousness, we only glimpse a small portion of reality.Furthermore, everything in the universe is in a state of constant flux. Simplewords and thoughts cannot capture this flux or complexity. The only solution foran enlightened person is to let the mind absorb itself in what it experiences,without having to form a judgment on what it all means. The mind must be ableto feel doubt and uncertainty for as long as possible. As it remains in this stateand probes deeply into the mysteries of the universe, ideas will come that aremore dimensional and real than if we had jumped