Crassus, andPompey. Fearing Pompey, a popular and famously successful general, Crassustried to form a secret alliance with Caesar, but Caesar balked; instead, a fewyears later, he approached the wary Pompey (who was suspicious of and hostiletoward Caesar as a possible future rival) and suggested they form their ownalliance. In return he promised to support some of Pompey's political proposals,which had been stalled in the Senate. Surprised, Pompey agreed, and Crassus,not wanting to be left out, agreed to join the group to form the First Triumvirate,which was to rule Rome for the next several years. In 53 B.C., Crassus was killed in battle in Syria, and a power strugglequickly emerged between Pompey and Caesar. Civil war seemed inevitable, andPompey had more support in the Senate. In 50 B.C., the Senate ordered that bothCaesar (who was fighting in Gaul at the time) and Pompey should send one oftheir legions to Syria to support the Roman army fighting there. But sincePompey had already lent Caesar a legion for the war in Gaul, he proposed tosend that one to Syria--so that Caesar would have lost two legions instead ofone, weakening him for the impending war.Caesar did not complain. He sent off the two legions, one of which,however--as he had expected--did not go to Syria but was conveniently quarterednear Rome, at Pompey's disposal. Before the two legions left, Caesar paid eachsoldier handsomely. He also instructed their officers to spread the rumor inRome that his troops still in Gaul were exhausted and that, should he dare tosend them against Pompey, they would switch sides as soon as they had crossedthe Alps. Coming to believe these false reports, and expecting massivedefections, Pompey did not trouble to recruit more soldiers for the imminent war,which he would later regret.In January of 49 B.C., Caesar crossed the Rubicon, the river between Gauland Italy, a dramatic, unexpected move that initiated the Civil War. Caught bysurprise, Pompey fled with his legions to Greece, where he began to prepare amajor operation. As Caesar marched south, many of Pompey's supporters, leftbehind in Rome, were terrified. Caesar had established a reputation in Gaul forbrutal treatment of the enemy, leveling whole towns and killing their inhabitants.Yet when Caesar took the key town of Corfinium, capturing important senatorsand army officers who had fought there alongside troops loyal to Pompey, he didnot punish these men; in fact, he returned to them the monies his soldiers hadlooted in taking the town. This remarkable act of clemency became the modelfor his treatment of Pompey's supporters. Instead of Caesar's men switchingallegiance to Pompey, it was Pompey's who now became the most ardentfollowers of Caesar. As a result, Caesar's march on Rome was quick andbloodless.Next, although Pompey had established his base in Greece, Caesar decidedto first attack his flank: the large army he had quartered in Spain. Over severalmonths of campaigning, he completely outmaneuvered this force, led byPompey's generals Afranius and Petreius, and finally cornered them. They weresurrounded, the situation was hopeless, and Afranius and many of the soldiers,knowing of Caesar's gentle