If, on the other hand,you simply let them run amok, you put them still more in control. But Haleydiscovered that if you encourage their difficult behavior, agree with theirparanoid ideas, and push them to go further, you turn the dynamic around. Thisis not what they want or expect; now they're doing what you want, which takesthe fun out of it. It is the jujitsu strategy: you are using their energy against them.In general, encouraging people to follow their natural direction, to give in to their greed or neuroses, will give you more control over them than activeresistance will. Either they get themselves into terrible trouble or they becomehopelessly confused, all of which plays into your hands.Whenever you find yourself on the defensive and in trouble, the greatestdanger is the impulse to overreact. You will often exaggerate your enemy'sstrength, seeing yourself as weaker than is actually the case. A key principle ofcounterattack is never to see a situation as hopeless. No matter how strong yourenemies seem, they have vulnerabilities you can prey upon and use to develop acounterattack. Your own weakness can become a strength if you play it right;with a little clever manipulation, you can always turn things around. That is howyou must look at every apparent problem and difficulty.An enemy seems powerful because he has a particular strength or advantage.Maybe it's money and resources; maybe it's the size of his army or of histerritory; maybe, more subtly, it's his moral standing and reputation. Whateverhis strength might be, it is actually a potential weakness, simply because herelies on it: neutralize it and he is vulnerable. Your task is to put him in asituation in which he cannot use his advantage.In 480 B.C., when the Persian king Xerxes invaded Greece, he had a hugeadvantage in the size of his army and particularly his navy. But the Atheniangeneral Themistocles was able to turn that strength into weakness: he lured thePersian fleet into the narrow straits off the island of Salamis. In these choppy,difficult waters, the very size of the fleet, its apparent strength, became anightmare: it was completely unable to maneuver. The Greeks counterattackedand destroyed it, ending the invasion.If your opponent's advantage comes from a superior style of fighting, thebest way to neutralize it is to learn from it, adapting it to your own purposes. Inthe nineteenth century, the Apaches of the American Southwest were for manyyears able to torment U.S. troops through guerrilla-style tactics that wereperfectly suited to the terrain. Nothing seemed to work until General GeorgeCrook hired disaffected Apaches to teach him their way of fighting and serve asscouts. Adapting their style of warfare, Crook neutralized the Apaches' strengthsand finally defeated them.As you neutralize your enemy's strengths, you must similarly reverse yourown weaknesses. If your forces are small, for example, they are also mobile; usethat mobility to counterattack. Perhaps your reputation is lower than youropponent's; that just means you have less to lose. Sling mud--some of it willstick, and gradually your enemy will sink to your level. Always find ways