in the middle of the train, who ispassing just in front of the man on the embankment as the lightning strikes. Shewill be moving closer to point B as the light signal travels. She will see it strikeever so slightly ahead of the lightning at point A. What is simultaneous for theman on the embankment is not so for the woman on the train. No two events canever be said to be simultaneous, because every moving reference frame has itsown relative time, and everything in the universe is moving in relation tosomething else. As Einstein put it, “There is no audible tick-tock everywhere inthe world that can be considered as time.” If time is not absolute, then neither isspace or distance. Everything is relative to everything else—speed, time,distance, and so on—except for the speed of light, which never changes.This was called his theory of Simple Relativity, and in the years to come itwould shake the foundations of physics and science. Several years later, Einsteinwould repeat the exact same process for his discovery of General Relativity andwhat he called the “curvature of spacetime,” applying relativity to gravitationalforce. He again began with an image, a thought experiment that he pondered forclose to ten years, leading to his breakthrough theory in 1915. From this theoryalone he deduced that the course of light rays must be bent by the curvature ofspacetime, and had gone even further to speculate the exact bend of the arc forrays of starlight grazing the sun. To the astonishment of scientists and the publicalike, during the solar eclipse of 1919, astronomers were able to precisely verifyEinstein’s speculation. It seemed that only someone with superhuman braincapabilities could deduce such a measurement simply through abstractreasoning. The fame and reputation of Albert Einstein as a freakish genius wasborn at that moment and has remained ever since. Although we like to assume that a genius like Albert Einstein had powers farbeyond our capabilities, his great discoveries depended on two very simpledecisions he made as a young man. First, at the age of twenty he determined thathe would be a mediocre experimental scientist. Even though a heavy immersionin mathematics and experimentation was the conventional route in physics, hewould go his own way—a daring decision. Second, he would consider his primaldistaste for authority and conventions as a great strength. He would attack fromthe outside and unburden himself of all the assumptions that were torturingscientists in relation to Newton. These two decisions allowed him to play to hisstrengths. A third factor can be identified as well: his love of the violin and themusic of Mozart. To others who would marvel at his feel for Mozart, he wouldreply, “It’s in my blood.” He meant that he had played this music so often that it had become part of him, his essence. He had an inside understanding of themusic. This would become the unconscious model for his approach to science:he would think himself inside complex phenomena.Although we tend to imagine Einstein as the ultimate abstract thinker, hisway of thinking