thesebloodthirsty pirates. For the weeks he remained among them, he participated intheir games and revelry, even playing a little rough with them, joking that hewould have them crucified someday.Amused by this spirited yet affectionate young man, the pirates practicallyadopted him as their own. But once the ransom was paid and Caesar was freed,he proceeded to the nearest port, manned some ships at his own expense, thenwent after the pirates and surprised them in their lair. At first they welcomed himback--but Caesar had them arrested, took back the money he had given them,and, as promised, had them crucified. In the years to come, many would learn--whether to their delight or to their horror--that this was how Caesar did battle.Caesar, however, did not always exact retribution. In 62 B.C., during areligious ceremony in Caesar's home, a young man named Publius Clodius wascaught among the female celebrants, dressed as a woman and cavorting withCaesar's wife, Pompeia. This was considered an outrage, and Caesarimmediately divorced Pompeia, saying, "My wife must be above suspicion." Yetwhen Clodius was arrested and tried for sacrilege, Caesar used his money andinfluence to get the youth acquitted. He was more than repaid a few years later, when he was preparing to leave Rome for wars in Gaul and needed someone toprotect his interests while he was away. He used his clout to get Clodius namedto the political office of tribune, and in that position Clodius doggedly supportedCaesar's interests, stirring up so much trouble in the Senate with his obnoxiousmaneuvers that no one had the time or inclination to intrigue against the absentgeneral.During this survey one impression became increasingly strong--that,throughout the ages, effective results in war have rarely been attained unlessthe approach has had such indirectness as to ensure the opponent'sunreadiness to meet it. The indirectness has usually been physical, andalways psychological. In strategy, the longest way round is often the shortestway home. More and more clearly has the lesson emerged that a directapproach to one's mental object, or physical objective, along the "line ofnatural expectation" for the opponent, tends to produce negative results. Thereason has been expressed vividly in Napoleon's dictum that "the moral is tothe physical as three to one." It may be expressed scientifically by saying that,while the strength of an opposing force or country lies outwardly in itsnumbers and resources, these are fundamentally dependent upon stability ofcontrol, morale, and supply. To move along the line of natural expectationconsolidates the opponent's balance and thus increases his resisting power. Inwar, as in wrestling, the attempt to throw the opponent without loosening hisfoothold and upsetting his balance results in self-exhaustion, increasing indisproportionate ratio to the effective strain put upon him. Success by such amethod only becomes possible through an immense margin of superiorstrength in some form--and, even so, tends to lose decisiveness. In mostcampaigns the dislocation of the enemy's psychological and physical balancehas been the vital prelude to a successful attempt at his overthrow.STRATEGY, B. H. LIDDELL HART, 1954The three most powerful men in Rome at the time were Caesar,