turn everything around us into a game, toplay with circumstances.Let us call this quality the Original Mind. This mind looked at the worldmore directly—not through words and received ideas. It was flexible andreceptive to new information. Retaining a memory of this Original Mind, wecannot help but feel nostalgia for the intensity with which we used to experiencethe world. As the years pass, this intensity inevitably diminishes. We come tosee the world through a screen of words and opinions; our prior experiences,layered over the present, color what we see. We no longer look at things as theyare, noticing their details, or wonder why they exist. Our minds gradually tighten up. We become defensive about the world we now take for granted, and webecome upset if our beliefs or assumptions are attacked.We can call this way of thinking the Conventional Mind. Under pressure tomake a living and conform to society, we force our minds into tighter and tightergrooves. We may seek to retain the spirit of childhood here and there, playinggames or participating in forms of entertainment that release us from theConventional Mind. Sometimes when we visit a different country where wecannot rely upon everything being familiar, we become childlike again, struckby the oddness and newness of what we are seeing. But because our minds arenot completely engaged in these activities, because they last only a short while,they are not rewarding in a deep sense. They are not creative.Masters and those who display a high level of creative energy are simplypeople who manage to retain a sizeable portion of their childhood spirit despitethe pressures and demands of adulthood. This spirit manifests itself in their workand in their ways of thinking. Children are naturally creative. They activelytransform everything around them, play with ideas and circumstances, andsurprise us with the novel things they say or do. But the natural creativity ofchildren is limited; it never leads to discoveries, inventions, or substantial worksof art.Masters not only retain the spirit of the Original Mind, but they add to it theiryears of apprenticeship and an ability to focus deeply on problems or ideas. Thisleads to high-level creativity. Although they have profound knowledge of asubject, their minds remain open to alternative ways of seeing and approachingproblems. They are able to ask the kinds of simple questions that most peoplepass over, but they have the rigor and discipline to follow their investigations allthe way to the end. They retain a childlike excitement about their field and aplayful approach, all of which makes the hours of hard work alive andpleasurable. Like children, they are capable of thinking beyond words—visually,spatially, intuitively—and have greater access to preverbal and unconsciousforms of mental activity, all of which can account for their surprising ideas andcreations.Some people maintain their childlike spirit and spontaneity, but their creativeenergy is dissipated in a thousand directions, and they never have the patienceand discipline to endure an extended apprenticeship. Others have the disciplineto accumulate vast amounts of knowledge and become experts in their field, butthey have no flexibility of spirit, so