it is only in order to avoid these risks that other policies are employed. That the method of destruction cannot fail to be expensive is under- standable; other things being equal, the more intent we are on destroying theenemy's forces, the greater our own efforts must be. The danger of this method is that the greater the success we seek, the greater will be the damage if we fail. Other methods, therefore, are less costly if they succeed and less damag- Copyright © ${Date}. ${Publisher}. All rights reserved. BOOK ONE ing if they fail, though this holds true only if both sides act identically, if the enemy pursues the same course as we do. If he were to seek the decision through a major battle, his choice would force us against our will to do like- wise. Then the outcome of the battle would be decisive; but it is clear- other things again being equal-that we would be at an overall disadvantage, since our plans and resources had been in part intended to achieve other goals, whereas the enemy's were not. Two objectives, neither of which is part of the other, are mutually exclusive: one force cannot simultaneously be used for both. If, therefore, one of the two commanders is resolved to seek a decision through major battles, he will have an excellent chance of success if he is certain that his opponent is pursuing a different policy. Conversely, the commander who wishes to adopt different means can reasonably do so only if he assumes his opponent to be equally unwilling to resort to major battles. What has been said about plans and forces being directed to other uses refers only to the positive purposes, other than the destruction of enemy forces, that can be pursued in war. It pertains in no way to pure resistance, which seeks to wear down the opponent's strength. Pure resistance has no positive intention; we can use our forces only to frustrate the enemy's inten- tions, and not divert them to other objectives. Here we must consider the negative side of destroying the enemy's forces-that is, the preservation of our own. These two efforts always go together; they interact. They are integral parts of a single purpose, and we only need to consider the result if one or the other dominates. The effort to destroy the enemy's forces has a positive purpose and leads to positive results, whose final aim is the enemy's collapse. Preserving our own forces has a negative purpose; it frustrates the enemy's intentions-that is, it amounts to pure resistance, whose ultimate aim can only be to prolong the war until the enemy is exhausted. The policy with a positive purpose calls the act of destruction into being; the policy with a negative purpose waits for it. How far such a waiting attitude may or should be maintained is a ques- tion we shall study in connection with the theory of attack and defense, whose basic element is here involved. For