ostraka and had him banished. After Aristides’ ostracism, thegreat generalThemistocles emergedas thecity’s premier leader. But hismany honors and victories went tohis head, and hetoobecame arrogant andoverbearing, constantly reminding theAthenians ofhistriumphsinbattle, thetempleshehadbuilt, thedan- gershehad fended oil.Heseemed tobesaying that without him thecity would come toruin. And so,in472 B.C., Thernistocles’ name was filled in onthe ostra/ca and thecitywasridofhispoisonous presence. The greatest political figureinfifth-centuryAthens wasundoubtedly Pericles. Although several times threatened with ostranism, heavoided that fatebymaintaining close tieswith thepeople. Perhapshehad learned alesson asachild from hisfavorite tutor, theincomparable Damon, whoTHIV, f.()\Ql'IC\T Hi‘l‘l".Iil Tlwstruggle new bccunm fiercur than over anmml theroyai liner /ofA1ahuulpa, king nj’/he Inca» empire].I1reeled more and mom, am! at length, sewrexl ofthe nobles who supported ithaving been slain. it mix‘ ovrcrmmcd. and theIndian prince would have (1)7213 with violence tothegroumi. had norhisfall been broken bytheefforts of Pizarro and some other oflhe cuvultrtm“, who mughrlzim intheir arm; Theimperial horia wasinsmnfly srmrchezl from his temples byasoldier, and theunhappy mnrzarcli. strongly secured, was removed toaneighboring bm’ld~ ingwhere hewas care- fully guarded. Allattcmpratr:’5is— twice now ceased, The fareoftlic Inca [/lrainmilmi sorm .\'[)N,‘l!Ilover town and mumry. The Lharm thatmighthave held thrPeruvinnr together way d:’.r.r(1h-«art. Every man Ilirmghz onlyof his own xufety. Even the[mean] soldier)’ encamped anthead/'av Cemfields took the nlrrrm, wad, learning the fatal Iitlingr,were seen /lying inrwrv rlirec1i()n before their _pur.m(er.v, who inmehm!of triumph showed no much Gfi-"1l'l’4"}’. At length night, more pi/iv /‘ulthan man, threw her frizwdly mtmrle over thefugitives, and (hr LAW 42 359 cumered troops of Pizarro rallied once‘ more atthemum! of thetrumpe! in theblrizitly square of Cajrmxorca... . /Alalzuzzlpa,’ was reverv enrerl usmore than a human. He was not merely thehead ofthe mite, butthe[mint to which ailitsErt5fiIl1£§0!LV canvergedastoa common cr.'n1z*r—zIz(e /((€}'.S‘l(Jfl€ of!/ze politi- calfabric whiclz must flail! [0pieces‘ byitsown weightwhen rho! was withdrawn. Soitfared onthe[execution] of Amhuulpa. flis death notonly leftthethrone vacam. without any certain soon-xsor, bu: the mzmner ofir announcer! Iothe Peruvian meople that Ithand stronger than thatoftheir Incas hurl now seized the .w:ep:‘£'n", and that thedynasty o/"the Children o/‘the Sun hadpassed away forever. me COh'(‘)Uk;S'I' or PERU. WILLIAM ll.PR1-_’S(‘0‘I'T, l847 360 LAW 42excelled above allother Athenians inhisintelligence, hismusical skills, and hisrhetorical abilities, Itwas Damon who had trained Pericles inthe artsofruling.Buthe,too, suffered ostracism, forhissuperiorairs and his insultingmanner toward the commoners stirreduptoomuch resentment. Toward theend ofthecenturythere lived aman named Hyperbolus. Most writers ofthetime describe him asthecity’smost worthless citizen: Hedidnot care whatanyone thoughtofhim, and slandered whomever he disliked. Heamused some, butirritated manymore. In417 B.C.,Hyperbo- lus saw anopportunitytostirupauger againstthe twoleading politicians ofthetime, Alcibiades and Nicias. Hehopedthat oneofthetwowould be ostracized and that hewould rise inthat man’s place.Hiscampaign seemed likelytosucceed: The Athenians disliked Alcibiades’ flamboyant and carefree lifestyle,and were wary ofNicias’ wealth and aloofness. They seemed certain toostracize one orthe other. But Alcibiades and Nicias, although theywere otherwise enemies, pooledtheir resources and managed toturn the ostracism onHyperbolusinstead. His obnoxious- ness, they argued,could onlybeterminated bybanishment. Earlier sufferers ofostracism had been formidable, powerfulmen. Hyperbolus, however,was alowbuffoon, and with hisbanishment the Athenians feltthat ostracism had been degraded. And sotheyended the practicethat fornearlyahundredyearshad been oneofthekeystokeep- ingthepeace within Athens. Interpretation The ancient Athenians