this was almost as good asreading any book—it taught her more about human nature, power, and the innerworkings of the white world.Her world was slowly expanding, but still there were severe limitations onwhere she could work, on the books she could find, on the people she could meetand associate with. She was learning, but her mind was unstructured and herthoughts unorganized. What she needed, she decided, was formal education andthe discipline this would bring her. She could try to patch a degree together invarious night schools, but what she really wanted was to regain what had beentaken away from her by her father. At twenty-five she looked young for her age,and so chopping off ten years in her application, she gained admittance to a freepublic high school in Maryland as a freshman.She would have to make the most of this schooling—her future depended onit. She would read many more books than were required, and work particularlyhard on any writing assignments. She would befriend teachers and professorswith the charm she had established over the years, making the kinds ofconnections that had eluded her in the past. In this way, a few years later, shegained admittance to Howard University, the leading institution of black higherlearning, and made the acquaintance of key figures in the black literary world.With the discipline she had gained in school, she began to write short stories.Now, with the help of one of her connections, she got a short story published in aprestigious Harlem literary journal. Seizing opportunities whenever theyappeared, she decided to leave Howard and move to Harlem, where all of theleading black writers and artists were living. This would add another dimensionto the world she was finally able to explore.Over the years, Hurston had made a study of powerful, important people—black and white—and how to impress them. Now in New York, she used thisskill to great effect, charming several wealthy white patrons of the arts. Throughone of these patrons she was offered the opportunity to enroll in BarnardCollege, where she could finish her college education. She would be the first andonly black student there. It had been her strategy to keep moving, keepexpanding—the world could quickly close in on you if you stayed put orstagnated. And so she accepted the offer. The white students at Barnard wereintimidated in her presence—her knowledge of so many fields far exceeded theirown. Several professors in the anthropology department fell under her spell, andsent her on a tour through the South to gather folk tales and stories. She used thetrip to immerse herself in hoodoo, the southern black version of voodoo, and in trip to immerse herself in hoodoo, the southern black version of voodoo, and inother ritual practices. She wanted to deepen her knowledge of black culture in allof its richness and variety.In 1932, with the Depression raging in New York and her employmentopportunities drying up, she decided to return to Eatonville. There she could livecheaply, and the atmosphere would be inspiring. Borrowing money from friends,she proceeded to work on her