in the Way of the warrior. If you keep your spirit correct from morning to night, accustomed to the idea of death and resolved on death, and consider yourself as a dead body, thus becoming one with the Way of the warrior, you can pass through life with no possibility of failure and and lowlier folk have been known to die readily in the cause of duty or out of shame, this is a different thing. The warrior is different in that studying the Way of strategy is based on overcoming men. By victory gained in crossing swords with individuals, or enjoining battle with large numbers, we can attain power and fame for ourselves or for our lord.14 This is the virtue of strategy. The Way of Strategy In China and Japan practitioners of the Way have been known as "masters of strategy". Warriors must learn this Way. Recently there have been people getting on in the world as strategists, but they are usually just sword-fencers. The attendants of the Kashima Kantori shrines15 of the province Hitachi received instruction from the gods, and made schools based on this teaching, travelling from country to country instructing men. This is the recent meaning of strategy. In olden times strategy was listed among the Ten Abilities and Seven Arts as a beneficial practice. It was certainly an art but as beneficial practice it was not limited to sword-fencing. The true value of sword-fencing cannot be seen within the confines of sword-fencing technique. If we look at the world we see arts for sale. Men use equipment to sell their own selves. As if with the nut and the flower, the nut has become less than the flower. In this kind of Way of strategy, both those teaching and those learning the way are concerned with colouring and showing off their technique, trying to hasten the bloom of the flower. They speak of "This Dojo" and "That Dojo".16 They are looking for profit. Someone once said "Immature strategy is the cause of grief". That was a true saying. perform your office properly. “The servant must think earnestly of the business of his employer. Such a fellow is a spendid retainer. In this house there have been generations of splendid gentlemen and we are deeply impressed by their warm kindness … all our ancestors. This was simply abondoning body and soul for the sake of their lord. “Moreover, our house excels in wisdom and technical skill. What a joyful thing if this can be used to advantage. “Even an unadaptable man who is completely useless is a most trusted retainer if he does nothing more than think earnestly of his lord’s welfare. To think only of the practical benefit of wisdom and technology is vulgar. “Some men are prone to having sudden inspirations. Some men do not quickly have good ideas but arrive at the answer by slow consideration. Well, if we investigate the heart of the matter, even though people’s natural abilities differ, bearing