to support him with speeches and fancy words (he wasnot a good orator anyway), he focused on the feeling he left people with. Heknew that persuasion is ultimately a process of the emotions: words can soundnice, but if a politician leaves people suspecting him of being insincere, ofmerely plugging for votes, they will close off to him and forget him. So Johnsonworked to establish an emotional connection with voters, and he would close hisconversations with them with a hearty handshake and with a look in his eye, atremor in his voice, that sealed the bond between them. He left them feeling thatthey would see him again, and he stirred emotions that would erase anysuspicion he might be insincere. The end of the conversation was in fact a kindof beginning, for it stayed in their minds and translated into votes. Understand: in any venture, your tendency to think in terms of winning orlosing, success or failure, is dangerous. Your mind comes to a stop, instead oflooking ahead. Emotions dominate the moment: a smug elation in winning,dejection and bitterness in losing. What you need is a more fluid and strategicoutlook on life. Nothing ever really ends; how you finish something willinfluence and even determine what you do next. Some victories are negative--they lead nowhere--and some defeats are positive, working as a wake-up call orlesson. This fluid kind of thinking will force you to put more strategic emphasison the quality and mood of the ending. It will make you look at your opponentsand decide whether you might do better to be generous to them at the end, takinga step back and transforming them into allies, playing on the emotions of themoment. Keeping your eyes on the aftermath of any encounter, you will thinkmore of the feeling you leave people with--a feeling that might translate into adesire to see more of you. By understanding that any victory or defeat istemporary, and that what matters is what you do with them, you will find iteasier to keep yourself balanced during the thousands of battles that life entails.The only real ending is death. Everything else is a transition.As Yasuda Ukyo said about offering up the last wine cup, only the end ofthings is important. One's whole life should be like this. When guests areleaving, the mood of being reluctant to say farewell is essential.--Yamamoto Tsunetomo, Hagakure: The Book of the Samurai (1659-1720)KEYS TO WARFAREThere are three kinds of people in the world. First, there are the dreamers andtalkers, who begin their projects with a burst of enthusiasm. But this burst ofenergy quickly peters out as they encounter the real world and the hard workneeded to bring any project to an end. They are emotional creatures who livemainly in the moment; they easily lose interest as something new grabs theirattention. Their lives are littered with half-finished projects, including some thatbarely make it beyond a daydream.Then there are those who bring whatever they do to a conclusion, eitherbecause they have to or because they can manage the effort.