annoyed that people could be so blind to such designissues. A few days later she was fired. Although no explanation was given, itwas clear that her letter to the president must have been the cause.As she mulled over these incidents, and other similar ones that had marredher career, she felt that the source of the problem had to be herself. She hadknown for years that she often did things that rubbed people the wrong way, andthat they avoided her for that reason. In the past she had tried to go about her lifeignoring this painful reality, but now her social deficiencies were threatening her ignoring this painful reality, but now her social deficiencies were threatening herability to make a living.Ever since she was a child, Grandin had the peculiar ability to see herselffrom the outside, as if she were looking at another person. It was more of asensation that would come and go, but as an adult she realized she could use thisgift for practical effect, by looking at her past mistakes as if watching anotherperson in action.For instance, in the case of the man who had sabotaged the machinery, shecould clearly recall how she had barely interacted with him and the otherengineers, and how she had made a point of doing everything herself. She couldsee in her mind the meetings in which she had presented her design ideas withrigorous logic and not opened them up for discussion. In the case of the letter tothe president, she could recall how she had bluntly criticized people in front oftheir peers and had made no attempt to interact with the man who had hired her.Visualizing these moments with such clarity, she could finally understand theproblem—she was making her coworkers feel insecure, useless, and inferior.She had injured their male egos and had paid a price.Her realization of what had gone wrong did not stem from empathy as itmight have for other people—it was an intellectual exercise, like solving apuzzle or a design problem. But because her emotions were not so deeplyinvolved, it was easier to go through the process and make the necessarycorrections. In the future, she would discuss her ideas with engineers, involvethem as much as possible in her work, and never directly criticize people foranything. She would practice this in every subsequent job until it became secondnature.Slowly, developing social intelligence in her own way, Temple ironed outmuch of her awkwardness and her career prospered. In the 1990s, as she grewfamous, she was increasingly invited to give talks—initially about herexperiences as a professional who had overcome autism, and later as an experton animal behavior.In giving these talks, she had imagined that they had gone quite well. Theywere full of information and appropriate slides to illustrate her ideas. But after afew such lectures she was handed the evaluations from the audience, and whatshe read was shocking. People complained that she made no eye contact, readher talk mechanically from her notes, and did not engage with the audience, tothe point of rudeness. The audience