using the jungle to neutralize American air power,disorient American foot soldiers, and camouflage his own troops. He could nothope to win a pitched battle against superior U.S. weaponry, so he put his effortinto spectacular, symbolic, demoralizing attacks that would drive home thefutility of the war when they appeared on American TV. With the minimum thathe had, he created the maximum effect.Armies that seem to have the edge in money, resources, and firepower tendto be predictable. Relying on their equipment instead of on knowledge andstrategy, they grow mentally lazy. When problems arise, their solution is toamass more of what they already have. But it's not what you have that brings youvictory, it's how you use it. When you have less, you are naturally moreinventive. Creativity gives you an edge over enemies dependent on technology;you will learn more, be more adaptable, and you will outsmart them. Unable towaste your limited resources, you will use them well. Time will be your ally.If you have less than your enemy, do not despair. You can always turn thesituation around by practicing perfect economy. If you and your enemy areequals, getting hold of more weaponry matters less than making better use ofwhat you have. If you have more than your enemy, fighting economically is asimportant as ever. As Pablo Picasso said, Even if you are wealthy, act poor. Thepoor are more inventive, and often have more fun, because they value what theyhave and know their limits. Sometimes in strategy you have to ignore yourgreater strength and force yourself to get the maximum out of the minimum.Even if you have the technology, fight the peasant's war.This does not mean that you disarm or fail to exploit what advantages youmay have in materiel. In Operation Desert Storm, the U.S. campaign against Iraqin 1991, American military strategists made full use of their superior technology,particularly in the air, but they did not depend on this for victory. They hadlearned the lesson of their debacle twenty years earlier in Vietnam, and theirmaneuvers showed the kind of deceptive feints and use of mobility associatedwith smaller, guerrilla-like forces. This combination of advanced technology andcreative flair proved devastating.War is a balance of ends and means: a general might have the best plan toachieve a certain end, but unless he has the means to accomplish it, his plan isworthless. Wise generals through the ages, then, have learned to begin by examining the means they have at hand and then to develop their strategy out ofthose tools. That is what made Hannibal a brilliant strategist: he would alwaysthink first of the givens--the makeup of his own army and of the enemy's, theirrespective proportions of cavalry and infantry, the terrain, his troops' morale, theweather. That would give him the foundation not only for his plan of attack butfor the ends he wanted to achieve in this particular encounter. Instead of beinglocked in to a way of fighting, like so many generals, he constantly adjusted hisends to his means. That was the strategic advantage he used again and