to deal with a large amount of new information,and this would be stressful and overwhelming if only a limited part of the brainwere used to handle it. The frontal cortex even expands in size in this initialphase, as we focus hard on the task. But once something is repeated oftenenough, it becomes hardwired and automatic, and the neural pathways for thisskill are delegated to other parts of the brain, farther down the cortex. Thoseneurons in the frontal cortex that we needed in the initial stages are now freed upto help in learning something else, and the area goes back to its normal size.In the end, an entire network of neurons is developed to remember this singletask, which accounts for the fact that we can still ride a bicycle years after wefirst learned how to do so. If we were to take a look at the frontal cortex of thosewho have mastered something through repetition, it would be remarkably stilland inactive as they performed the skill. All of their brain activity is occurring inareas that are lower down and require much less conscious control.This process of hardwiring cannot occur if you are constantly distracted,moving from one task to another. In such a case, the neural pathways dedicatedto this skill never get established; what you learn is too tenuous to remain rootedin the brain. It is better to dedicate two or three hours of intense focus to a skillthan to spend eight hours of diffused concentration on it. You want to be asimmediately present to what you are doing as possible.Once an action becomes automatic, you now have the mental space toobserve yourself as you practice. You must use this distance to take note of yourweaknesses or flaws that need correction—to analyze yourself. It helps also togain as much feedback as possible from others, to have standards against whichyou can measure your progress so that you are aware of how far you have to go.People who do not practice and learn new skills never gain a proper sense ofproportion or self-criticism. They think they can achieve anything without effortand have little contact with reality. Trying something over and over againgrounds you in reality, making you deeply aware of your inadequacies and ofwhat you can accomplish with more work and effort.If you take this far enough, you will naturally enter the cycle of acceleratedreturns: As you learn and gain skills you can begin to vary what you do, findingnuances that you can develop in the work, so that it becomes more interesting.As elements become more automatic your mind is not exhausted by the effortand you can practice harder, which in turn brings greater skill and more pleasure. and you can practice harder, which in turn brings greater skill and more pleasure.You can look for challenges, new areas to conquer, keeping your interest at ahigh level. As the cycle accelerates, you can reach a point where your mind istotally absorbed in the practice, entering a kind of flow in which everything elseis blocked out.