Jodl, Alfred Johnson, Lyndon Baines alliance strategy of campaigning style of exits and endings of first run for office of as grand strategist intelligence gathering of leadership style of one-upmanship of Roosevelt and Vietnam War and Johnston, John Jomini, Antoine-Henri de Jonathan Jones, L.E. Jordan, Henry Josephine, empress of France Joshua, Book of Journey to Ixtlan: The Lessons of Don Juan (Castaneda) Judith, Book of jujitsu Julius Caesar (Fuller) Julius II, pope Juvenal Kahn, Roger Karmal, Babrak Keach, Carroll Kennedy, John F. Bay of Pigs and Johnson and Kernstown, battle at Khalid ibn al Waleed Khan, Akbar Khe Sanh, battle at Khwarizm (ancient Asian state) King Henry IV, Part I (Shakespeare) King Henry V (Shakespeare) Kissinger, Henry A. Kleberg, Richard Knight, Ian Kodama, Gentaro Korea Russia and United States and Krishnamurti, Jiddu Kumbakarna Kutusov, Mikhail Labour Party Lacan, Jacques Ladon Landon, Alf M. language. See words Lansdale, Edward Lao-tzu last war Latimer, Gene Latin League Lavagetto, Cookie Lawrence, T.E. leadership errors in. See leadership errors flexibility in from the front Napoleon on through personal example through remote (indirect) control leadership errors broken chain of command divided leadership League of Nations Le Baron, William Lee, Robert E. Legends of the Samurai (Sato) Leggett, Trevor Leigh, Vivien Lemon, Bob Lenin, Vladimir Leonhard, Robert R. Leo X, pope Lettow-Vorbeck, Paul von Lewis, Bernard Lewis, John L. Liddell Hart, B.H. limits, knowing Lin Biao Lincoln, Abraham Civil War and Grant and McClernand and as moral warrior reelection of Linn, Ed Liston, Sonny Lives of Master Swordsmen (Sugawara) Livy Locke, John Lockman, Whitey Lodi, Bridge of Lombardi, Vince London Blitz Lone Star Preacher (Thomason) Long, Huey Long March Longus, Sempronius lotus, blooming. See inner-front strategy Louis XI, king of France Louis XII, king of France Louis XIV, king of France bishop of Noyon and love Low Countries loyalty Luther, Martin Luttwak, Edward N. lying MacArthur, Douglas McCarey, Leo McCarthy, Eugene McClellan, George B. McClernand, John McDougall, William McDowell, Irvin Macedonia, Athens and Machiavelli, Niccolo on acclimatization on alliances on effective truth goals of political career of on Roman Empire writing of Mack, Karl McKinley, William Macnaghten, William McPherson, Harry Madariaga, Salvador de Maglie, Sal Mago Magsaysay, Ramon Mahdi Malik Shah Malta Mandragola (Machiavelli) maneuver warfare examples of planning in principles of timing in Mankiewicz, Joseph man management. See morale (motivation) Mantua, fortress of Mao: A Biography (Terrill) Mao Tse-tung in Chinese Civil War divide-and-conquer strategy and guerrilla tactics of Lin Biao and turning strategy of on war Marathon, Athenian victory at Marciano, Rocky Marengo, Battle of Marhabal Maria Theresa Marie Antoinette Marie Louise Marshall, George C. martyrdom Mary, queen of Scots Masinissa, king of Numibia Massena, Andre Master of Deception (Mure) Mastering the Art of War: Zhuge Liang's and Liu Ji's Commentaries on the Classic by Sun Tzu Matali Matashichiro Mathewson, Christy Matthew, Book of Maurikios (Byzantine emperor) Maximus, Fabius Mayo, Archie L. Mazzolini, Silvester. See Prieras Measure for Measure (Shakespeare) media, guerrilla warfare and mediator, role of Medici, Lorenzo de' Medici family Meinhertzhagen, Richard