when his opponents lay down;then, once he had killed their leader, he set himself at an angle that invited themto charge at him instead of surrounding him, which would have been much moredangerous for him. With Baiken it was simply a matter of using two swords andthen crowding his space, giving him no time to react intelligently to this novelty.With Ganryu he set out to infuriate and humiliate his haughty opponent--thewooden sword, the nonchalant attitude, the dirty-towel headband, the enigmaticremark, the charge at the eyes.Musashi's opponents depended on brilliant technique, flashy swords, andunorthodox weapons. That is the same as fighting the last war: instead ofresponding to the moment, they relied on training, technology, and what hadworked before. Musashi, who had grasped the essence of strategy when he wasstill very young, turned their rigidity into their downfall. His first thought was ofthe gambit that would take this particular opponent most by surprise. Then hewould anchor himself in the moment: having set his opponent off balance withsomething unexpected, he would watch carefully, then respond with anotheraction, usually improvised, that would turn mere disequilibrium into defeat anddeath.Thunder and wind: the image of DURATION. Thus the superior man standsfirm And does not change his direction. Thunder rolls, and the wind blows;both are examples of extreme mobility and so are seemingly the very oppositeof duration, but the laws governing their appearance and subsidence, theircoming and going, endure. In the same way the independence of the superiorman is not based on rigidity and immobility of character. He always keepsabreast of the time and changes with it. What endures is the unswervingdirective, the inner law of his being, which determines all his actions. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.In preparing yourself for war, you must rid yourself of myths andmisconceptions. Strategy is not a question of learning a series of moves or ideasto follow like a recipe; victory has no magic formula. Ideas are merely nutrients for the soil: they lie in your brain as possibilities, so that in the heat of themoment they can inspire a direction, an appropriate and creative response. Letgo of all fetishes--books, techniques, formulas, flashy weapons--and learn tobecome your own strategist.Thus one's victories in battle cannot be repeated--they take their form inresponse to inexhaustibly changing circumstances.--Sun-tzu (fourth century B.C.)KEYS TO WARFAREIn looking back on an unpleasant or disagreeable experience, the thoughtinevitably occurs to us: if only we had said or done x instead of y, if only wecould do it over. Many a general has lost his head in the heat of battle and then,looking back, has thought of the one tactic, the one maneuver, that would havechanged it all. Even Prince Hohenlohe, years later, could see how he had botchedthe retaking of Vierzehnheiligen. The problem, though, is not that we think ofthe solution only when it is too late. The problem is that we imagine thatknowledge is what was lacking: if only we had known more, if only we hadthought it through more thoroughly. That is precisely the wrong