in strategy, tactics, and leadership. Aking, a prime minister, or even a general might be incompetent at war, but agroup of brilliant and well-trained officers on the army's staff could compensatefor his failures. The structure of this body was unfixed: each new chief of staffcould alter its size and function to suit his needs and the times. After eachcampaign or training exercise, the staff would rigorously examine itself and itsperformance. A whole section was created for the purpose of these examinationsand for the study of military history. The general staff would learn from itsmistakes and those of others. It was to be a work permanently in progress.The most important reform was the development of the Auftragstaktik(mission-oriented command system). In German there are two words for"command": Auftrag and Befehl. A Befehl is an order to be obeyed to the letter.An Auftrag is much more general: it is a statement of overall mission, a directiveto be followed in its spirit, not its letter. The Auftragstaktik--inspired by Prussia's archenemy Napoleon and the leeway he gave his marshals--permeated thegeneral staff. Officers were first inculcated with the philosophy of Germanwarfare: speed, the need to take the offensive, and so on. Then they were putthrough exercises to help them develop their ability to think on their own, tomake decisions that met the overall philosophy but responded to thecircumstances of the moment. Leading the equivalent of a corps in battle,officers were given missions to accomplish and then were let loose. They werejudged by the results of their actions, not on how those results were achieved.The general staff (with a few interruptions) was in place from 1808 to theend of World War II. During that period the Germans consistently outfoughtother armies in the field-including the Allies in World War I, despite the severelimitations of trench warfare. Their success culminated in the most devastatingmilitary victory in modern history: the 1940 blitzkrieg invasion of France andthe Low Countries, when the German army ran rings around the rigid defensesof the French. It was the structure of their army, and their use of theAuftragstaktik, that gave them more options and greater potential force.The German general staff should serve as the organizational model for anygroup that aims at mobility and strategic depth. First, the staff's structure wasfluid, allowing its leaders to adapt it to their own needs. Second, it examineditself constantly and modified itself according to what it had learned. Third, itreplicated its structure through the rest of the army: its officers trained theofficers below them, and so on down the line. The smallest team was inculcatedwith the overall philosophy of the group. Finally, rather than issuing rigid orders,the staff embraced the mission command, the Auftragstaktik. By making officersand soldiers feel more creatively engaged, this tactic improved their performanceand sped up the decision-making process. Mobility was written into the system.The key to the Auftragstaktik is an overall group philosophy. This can bebuilt around the cause you are fighting for or a belief in the evil of the enemyyou face. It can also include