to the bilateralprinciple of application, on the other hand, the opponent's personality wasviewed not merely as a target, but also (and by certain bujutsu masters,primarily) as an instrument--that is, as the unwilling but nevertheless usefulvector of his own subjugation....... It is the principle of bilateral applicationwhich seems to represent a tactical differentiation between Japanese bujutsuand the martial arts of the West. Lafcadio Hearn, for example, considered thisprinciple "a uniquely Oriental idea," asking, "What Western brain could haveelaborated this strange teaching: never to oppose force to force, but only todirect and utilize the power of attack; to overthrow the enemy solely by hisown strength--to vanquish him solely by his own efforts?" (Smith,128)...Takuan, writing about the art of swordsmanship in particular, refers tothe strategic value of the bilateral principle in the strategy of counterattackagainst an opponent, when he advised his pupil to "make use of his attack byturning it on to himself. Then, his sword meant to kill you becomes your ownand the weapon will fall on the opponent himself. In Zen this is known as'seizing the enemy's spear and using it as the weapon to kill him'" (Suzuki, 96)The ancient schools of jujutsu were very empathetic on this subject.... JuJutsu(literally "soft art"), as its name implies, is based upon the principle ofopposing softness or elasticity to hardness or stiffness. Its secret lies inkeeping one's body full of ki, with elasticity in one's limbs, and in being everon the alert to turn the strength of one's foe to one's own advantage with theminimum employment of one's own muscular force.SECRETS OF THE SAMURAI, OSCAR RATTI AND ADELEWESTBROOK, 1973However desperate the situation and circumstances, don't despair. Whenthere is everything to fear, be unafraid. When surrounded by dangers, fearnone of them. When without resources, depend on resourcefulness. Whensurprised, take the enemy itself by surprise.--Sun-tzu, The Art of War (fourth century B.C.)JUJITSUIn 1920 the Democratic Party nominated Ohio governor James Cox as itscandidate to succeed the retiring President Woodrow Wilson. At the same time,it named thirty-eight-year-old Franklin Delano Roosevelt as its vice presidential nominee. Roosevelt had served as the assistant secretary of the navy underWilson; more important, he was the cousin of Theodore Roosevelt, still verypopular after his presidency in the first decade of the century.The Republican nominee was Warren G. Harding, and the campaign was agrueling affair. The Republicans had a lot of money; they avoided talking aboutthe issues and played up Harding's folksy image. Cox and Roosevelt respondedto the Republicans by going on a vigorous offensive, basing their campaign on asingle issue of Wilson's: American participation in the League of Nations, whichthey hoped would bring peace and prosperity. Roosevelt campaigned all over thecountry, delivering speech after speech--the idea was to counter the Republicans'money with sheer effort. But the race was a disaster: Harding won thepresidency in one of the biggest landslides in American electoral history.The following year, Roosevelt was stricken with polio and lost the use of hislegs. Coming just after the disastrous 1920 campaign, his illness marked aturning point in his life: suddenly