SIXTH CENTURY B.C.The group or tribe offered a defense against predators and greatereffectiveness in the hunt. In the group there were enough people to watch yourback. The larger the group, the more it allowed its members to refine that greathuman invention, the division of labor, and the more different individuals in thegroup were freed from the immediate needs of survival, the more time andenergy they could devote to higher tasks. These different roles were mutuallysupportive and reinforcing, and the result was a net increase in human strength. Over the centuries groups became ever larger and more complex. Bylearning to live in towns and settlements, people found that they could escape thefeeling of imminent danger and need. Living with others also offered moresubtle psychological protections. In time humans began to forget the fear thathad made them form tribes in the first place. But in one group--the army--thatprimal terror remained as strong as ever.The standard mode of ancient warfare was hand-to-hand combat, afrightening drama in which individuals were at all times exposed to death frombehind and to each side. Military leaders learned early on to form their soldiersinto tight, cohesive ranks. Trusting his fellows on either side of him not to retreatand leave him exposed, a soldier could fight the man in front of him with morespirit and confidence. The Romans extended this strategy by placing theyoungest, most impetuous fighters in the front ranks, the most experienced andbest fighters in the rear, and everyone else in the center. This meant that theweakest soldiers--the ones most prone to panic--were surrounded by those whowere braver and steadier, giving them a powerful sense of security. No armywent into battle with more cohesion and trust than the Roman legions.In studying ancient warfare, the great nineteenth-century military writerColonel Ardant du Picq noticed a peculiar phenomenon: in some of the mostcelebrated battles (Hannibal's victory over the Romans at Cannae and JuliusCaesar's over Pompey at Pharsalus, for example), the losses on each side werefantastically disproportionate--a few hundred for the victors, thousands uponthousands among the vanquished. According to du Picq, what had happened inthese cases was that through maneuver the ultimately victorious army hadmanaged to surprise the enemy and splinter its lines into parts. Seeing their ranksbreaking up, losing their sense of solidarity and support, and feeling isolated,soldiers panicked, dropped their weapons, and fled--and a soldier who turned hisback on the enemy was an easy soldier to kill. Thousands were slaughtered thisway. These great victories, then, were essentially psychological. Hannibal wasvastly outnumbered at Cannae, but by making the Romans feel vulnerable andisolated, he made them overreact and retreat in confusion: easy pickings.Roosevelt...disliked being completely committed to any one person. Heenjoyed being at the center of attention and action, and the system made himthe focus through which the main lines of action radiated....... The mainreason for Roosevelt's methods, however, involved a tenacious effort to keepcontrol of the executive branch in the face of the centrifugal forces of theAmerican political system. By establishing in an agency one power centerthat counteracted another, he