quality of lightness--these traitscomprising what Nietzsche calls the "Apollonian ideal." (Only people who can'tsee past their noses make things heavy.) Alexander, the great strategist and manof action, was also famous for revelry and festivity. Odysseus loved adventure;no one was better at the experience of pleasure. He was simply more reasonable,more balanced, less vulnerable to his own emotions and moods, and he left lesstragedy and turmoil in his wake.This calm, detached, rational, far-seeing creature, called "prudent" by theGreeks, is what we shall call the "grand strategist."We are all of us to some extent strategists: we naturally want control overour lives, and we plot for power, consciously or unconsciously angling to getwhat we want. We use strategies, in other words, but they tend to be linear andreactive and are often fractured and struck off course by emotional responses.Clever strategists can go far, but all but a few make mistakes. If they are successful, they get carried away and overreach; if they face setbacks--andsetbacks are inevitable over a lifetime--they are easily overwhelmed. What setsgrand strategists apart is the ability to look more deeply into both themselves andothers, to understand and learn from the past and to have a clear sense of thefuture, to the extent that it can be predicted. Simply, they see more, and theirextended vision lets them carry out plans over sometimes-long periods of time--so long that those around them may not even realize that they have a plan inmind. They strike at the roots of a problem, not at its symptoms, and hit theirmark cleanly. In moving toward becoming a grand strategist, you follow in thepath of Odysseus and rise toward the condition of the gods. It is not so much thatyour strategies are more clever or manipulative as that they exist on a higherplane. You have made a qualitative leap.In a world where people are increasingly incapable of thinkingconsequentially, more animal than ever, the practice of grand strategy willinstantly elevate you above others.To become a grand strategist does not involve years of study or a totaltransformation of your personality. It simply means more effective use of whatyou have--your mind, your rationality, your vision. Having evolved as a solutionto the problems of warfare, grand strategy is a military concept. And anexamination of its historical development will reveal the key to making it workfor you in daily life.In the early history of warfare, a ruler or general who understood strategyand maneuver could exercise power. He could win battles, carve out an empire,or at the very least defend his own city or state. But problems came with strategyon this level. More than any other human activity, war plays havoc with emotion,stirs the animal within. In plotting war a king would depend on things like hisknowledge of the terrain and his understanding of both the enemy's forces andhis own; his success would depend on his ability to see these things clearly. Butthis vision was likely to be clouded. He had emotions to respond to, desires torealize; he could not think his goals through.