of the game: ifsomeone needed to raise money, say, Dali would come to the rescue, organizinga charity ball or other fund-raising event. The person in need could hardly resist:Dali was friendly with royalty, Hollywood stars, socialites. Soon he would beordering all kinds of elaborate props for the ball. For his infamous "Night in aSurrealist Forest" in Pebble Beach, California, in 1941, which was intended tobenefit starving artists in war-torn Europe, Dali requested a live giraffe, enoughpine trees to create a fake forest, the largest bed in the world, a wreckedautomobile, and thousands of pairs of shoes from which to serve the first course.In the end the party was a smash and got all kinds of publicity, but, as so oftenwith Dali, the bills far exceeded the receipts; no money was left over for thestarving artists of Europe. And strangely enough, all of the publicity was focusedon Dali, increasing his fame and winning him more powerful allies.A variation on the Alliance Game is to play the mediator, the center aroundwhich other powers pivot. While remaining covertly autonomous, you makethose around you fight for your allegiance. This was essentially how PrinceKlemens von Metternich, the Austrian foreign minister during the Napoleonicera and afterward, restored Austria as Europe's principal power. It helped thatAustria is located in the center of Europe and so is strategically vital to thenations around it. Even during the reign of Napoleon, when Austria was at its weakest and Metternich had to cozy up to the French, he kept his country free oflasting entanglements. Without bonding Austria to France by any legal alliance,for example, he tied Napoleon to him emotionally by arranging for the emperorto marry into the Austrian royal family. Keeping all of the great powers--England, France, Russia--at arm's length, he made everything revolve aroundAustria, even though Austria itself was no longer a great military power.The brilliance of this variation is that merely by assuming a central position,you can wield tremendous power. For instance, you place yourself at a criticalpoint in the information chain, giving you access to and control over it. Or youproduce something other people depend on, giving you incredible leverage. Oryou play the mediator everyone needs to resolve a dispute. Whatever it is, youcan maintain power in this central position only by keeping yourself unentangledand courted by all. The moment you enter into any kind of lasting alliance, yourpower is greatly reduced.A key component of the Alliance Game is the ability to manipulate otherpeople's alliances and even destroy them, sowing dissension among youropponents so that they fight among themselves. Breaking your enemy's alliancesis as good as making alliances yourself. When Hernan Cortes landed in Mexicoin 1519, he faced hundreds of thousands of Aztecs with 500 men. Knowing thatmany smaller Mexican tribes resented the powerful Aztec Empire, he slowlyworked to peel them away from their alliances with the Aztecs. By filling a triballeader's ears with horrible stories about the Aztec emperor's plans, for example,he might bait the man into arresting the Aztec envoys on their next visit. That