dribbled up one side and down the other, until the voyage wasdone.Working this way over the years, Bradley slowly transformed himself into Working this way over the years, Bradley slowly transformed himself intoone of the biggest stars in basketball—first as an All-American at PrincetonUniversity and then as a professional with the New York Knicks. Fans were inawe of his ability to make the most astounding passes, as if he had eyes on theback and sides of his head—not to mention his dribbling prowess, his incrediblearsenal of fakes and pivots, and his complete gracefulness on the court. Little didthey know that such apparent ease was the result of so many hours of intensepractice over so many years.B. When John Keats (1795–1821) was eight years old, his father died in a ridingaccident. His mother never quite got over the loss and died seven years later—essentially leaving John, his two brothers, and one sister orphaned and homelessin London. John, the eldest of the children, was taken out of school by theappointed trustee and guardian of the estate, and enrolled as an apprentice to asurgeon and apothecary—he would have to earn a living as quickly as possible,and this seemed the best career for that.In his last few terms at school, Keats had developed a love for literature andreading. To continue his education, he would return to his school in his off-hoursand read as many books as he could in the library. Sometime later, he had thedesire to try his hand at writing poetry, but lacking any kind of instructor orliterary circle he could frequent, the only way he knew to teach himself to writewas to read the works of all of the greatest poets of the seventeenth andeighteenth centuries. He then wrote his own poems, using the poetic form andstyle of the particular writer he was trying to model himself after. He had aknack for imitation, and soon he was creating verses in dozens of differentstyles, always tweaking them a little with his own voice.Several years into this process, Keats came to a fateful decision—he woulddevote his life to writing poetry. That was his calling in life and he would find away to make a living at it. To complete the rigorous apprenticeship he hadalready put himself through, he decided that what he needed was to write a verylong poem, precisely 4,000 lines. The poem would revolve around the ancientGreek myth of Endymion. “Endymion,” he wrote a friend, “will be a test, a trialof my Powers of Imagination and chiefly of my invention …—by which I mustmake 4000 lines of some circumstances and fill them with Poetry.” He gavehimself a rather impossible deadline—seven months—and a task of writing fiftylines a day, until he had a rough draft.Three-quarters of the way through, he came to thoroughly hate the poem hewas writing. He would not quit, however, willing his way to the end, meeting thedeadline he had set. What he did not like about Endymion was the flowery language, the overwriting. But it was only by