better to go down fighting for his life.Suddenly a cousin came to Covey's aid, and, finding himself surrounded,Douglass did the unthinkable: he swung hard at the man and knocked him to theground. Hitting a white man would most likely lead to his hanging. A "fightingmadness" came over Douglass. He returned Covey's blows. The struggle went onfor two hours until, bloodied, exhausted, and gasping for breath, Covey gave upand slowly staggered back to his house.Douglass could only assume that Covey would now come after him with agun or find some other way to kill him. It never happened. Slowly it dawned onDouglass: to kill him, or punish him in some powerful way, posed too great arisk. Word would get out that Covey had failed to break a Negro this one time,had had to resort to a gun when his terror tactics did not work. The mere hint ofthat would ruin his reputation far and wide, and his job depended on his perfectreputation. Better to leave the wild sixteen-year-old slave alone than risk thekind of crazy or unpredictable response Douglass had showed himself capableof. Better to let him calm down and go quietly away when his time of servicethere was over.For the rest of Douglass's stay with Covey, the white man did not lay a hand on him. Douglass had noticed that slaveholders often "prefer to whip those whoare most easily whipped." Now he had learned the lesson for himself: neveragain would he be submissive. Such weakness only encouraged the tyrants to gofurther. He would rather risk death, returning blow for blow with his fists or hiswits.InterpretationReflecting on this moment years later in his book My Bondage and My Freedom,after he had escaped to the North and become a leading advocate of theabolitionist movement, Douglass wrote, "This battle with Mr. Covey...was theturning point in my 'life as a slave.'...I was a changed being after that fight.... Ihad reached the point at which I was not afraid to die. This spirit made me afreeman in fact, while I remained a slave in form." For the rest of his life, headopted this fighting stance: by being unafraid of the consequences, Douglassgained a degree of control of his situation both physically and psychologically.Once he had rooted fear out of himself, he opened up possibilities for action--sometimes fighting back overtly, sometimes being clever and deceitful. From aslave with no control, he became a man with some options and some power, allof which he leveraged into real freedom when the time came.To control the dynamic, you must be able to control yourself and youremotions. Getting angry and lashing out will only limit your options. And inconflict, fear is the most debilitating emotion of all. Even before anything hashappened, your fear puts you on your heels, cedes the initiative to the enemy.The other side has endless possibilities for using your fear to help control you,keep you on the defensive. Those who are tyrants and domineering types cansmell your anxiety, and it makes them even more tyrannical. Before anythingelse