the gossip: he is either a babbler or a spy . Expect little good from the misshapen: they generally take revenge on Nature, and do little honour to her, as she has done little to them. Beauty and folly generally go hand in hand. cclxxiv Be Attractive manage your pleasant qualities more to obtain goodwill than good deeds, but apply it to all. Merit is not enough unless supported by grace, which is the sole thing that gives general acceptance, and the most practical means of rule over others. To be in vogue is a matter of luck, yet it can be encouraged by skill, for art can best take root on a soil favoured by nature. There goodwill grows and develops into universal favour. cclxxv Join in the Game as far as Decency permits. Do not always pose and be a bore: this is a maxim for gallant bearing. Y ou may yield a touch of dignity to gain the general good-will: you may now and then go where most go, yet not beyond the bounds of decorum. He who makes a fool of himself in public will not be regarded as discreet in private life. One may lose more on a day of pleasure than has been gained during a whole life of labour. Still you must not always keep away: to be singular is to condemn all others. Still less act the prude--leave that to its appropriate sex: even religious prudery is ridiculous. Nothing so becomes a man as to be a man: a woman may aﬀect a manly bearing as an excellence, but not vice versa. cclxxvi Know how to renew your Character , with the help both of Nature and of Art, Every seven years the disposition changes, they say . Let it be a change for the better and for the nobler in your taste. After the ﬁrst seven comes reason, with each succeeding lustre let a new excellence be added. Observe this change so as to aid it, and hope also for betterment in others. Hence it arises that many change their behaviour when they change their position or their occupation. At times the change is not noticed till it reaches the height of maturity . At twenty Man is a Peacock, at thirty a Lion, at forty a Camel, at ﬁfty a Serpent, at sixty a Dog, at seventy an Ape, at eighty nothing at all. cclxxvii Display yourself. 'Tis the illumination of talents: for each there comes an appropriate moment; use it, for not every day comes a triumph. There are some dashing men who make much show with a little, a whole exhibition with much. If ability to display them is joined to versatile gifts, they are regarded as miraculous. There are whole nations given to display: the Spanish people take the highest rank in this. Light was the ﬁrst thing to cause Creation to shine forth. Display ﬁlls up much, supplies much, and gives a second existence to things,