into such mastery. These values of ours are oddlycounterproductive—they cloak from us the fact that almost anyone can reach such heights through tenacious effort, something that should encourage us all. Itis time to reverse this prejudice against conscious effort and to see the powerswe gain through practice and discipline as eminently inspiring and evenmiraculous. The ability to master complicated skills by building connections inthe brain is the product of millions of years of evolution, and the source of all ofour material and cultural powers. When we sense the possible unity of mind andbody in the early stages of practice, we are being guided toward this power. It isthe natural bent of our brain to want to move in this direction, to elevate itspowers through repetition. To lose our connection to this natural inclination isthe height of madness, and will lead to a world in which no one has the patienceto master complex skills. As individuals we must resist such a trend, andvenerate the transformative powers we gain through practice.4. Internalize the details—The Life ForceAs the illegitimate son of the notary Ser Piero da Vinci, Leonardo da Vinci (seepages 21–25, for more on the artist) was essentially barred from studying andpracticing the traditional professional careers—medicine, law, and so on—andfrom higher education. And so as a boy growing up in the town of Vinci, nearFlorence, he received little formal education. He spent much of his time roamingaround the countryside and venturing into the forests outside his town. He wasenchanted by the incredible variety of life he found there, and the dramatic rockformations and waterfalls that were part of the landscape. As his father was anotary, there was a fair amount of paper (a rare commodity at the time) in thefamily house, and feeling a great desire to draw all that he saw on his walks, hebegan stealing sheets of paper and carrying them with him.He would sit on a rock and draw the insects, birds and flowers that fascinatedhim. He never received any instruction. He simply drew what he saw, and hebegan to notice that in trying to capture these things on paper, he had to thinkdeeply. He had to focus on the details that the eye would often pass over. Indrawing plants, for instance, he began to notice the subtle distinctions in thestamens of various flowers and how they were different from one another. Hewould notice the transformations these plants went through on their way toblossoming, and he would capture these changes in sequential drawings. Ingoing so deeply into their details, he had fleeting intimations of what animatedthese plants from within, what made them distinct and alive. Soon, thinking anddrawing became fused in his mind. Through drawing things in the world aroundhim, he came to understand them.His progress at drawing was so astounding that his father thought of finding him a position as an apprentice in one of the various studios in Florence.Working in the arts was one of the few professions open to illegitimate sons. In1466, using his influence as