that more terriblethings are coming and that we might soon suffer some unpredictable tragedy-- that is what unnerves us. We cannot crowd out these thoughts with routines orreligion. Fear becomes chronic and intense, our minds besieged by all kinds ofirrational thoughts. The specific fears become more general. Among a group,panic will set in.Six at the top means: Shock brings ruin and terrified gazing around. Goingahead brings misfortune. If it has not yet touched one's own body But hasreached one's neighbor first, There is no blame. One's comrades havesomething to talk about. When inner shock is at its height, it robs a man ofreflection and clarity of vision. In such a state of shock it is of courseimpossible to act with presence of mind. Then the right thing is to keep stilluntil composure and clarity are restored. But this a man can do only when hehimself is not yet infected by the agitation, although its disastrous effects arealready visible in those around him. If he withdraws from the affair in time,he remains free of mistakes and injury. But his comrades, who no longer heedany warning, will in their excitement certainly be displeased with him.However, he must not take this into account. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.In essence, this is terror: an intense, overpowering fear that we cannotmanage or get rid of in the normal way. There is too much uncertainty, too manybad things that can happen to us.During World War II, when the Germans bombed London, psychologistsnoted that when the bombing was frequent and somewhat regular, the people ofthe city became numb to it; they grew accustomed to the noise, discomfort, andcarnage. But when the bombing was irregular and sporadic, fear became terror. Itwas much harder to deal with the uncertainty of when the next one would land.It is a law of war and strategy that in the search for an advantage, anythingwill be tried and tested. And so it is that groups and individuals, seeing theimmense power that terror can have over humans, have found a way to use terroras a strategy. People are crafty, resourceful, and adaptable creatures. The way toparalyze their will and destroy their capacity to think straight is to consciouslycreate uncertainty, confusion, and an unmanageable fear.Such strategic terror can take the form of exemplary acts of destruction. Themasters of this art were the Mongols. They would level a few cities here andthere, in as horrible a manner as possible. The terrifying legend of the MongolHorde spread quickly. At its very approach to a city, panic would ensue as the inhabitants could only imagine the worst. More often than not, the city wouldsurrender without a fight--the Mongols' goal all along. A relatively small armyfar from home, they could not afford long sieges or protracted wars.This strategic terror can also be used for political purposes, to hold a groupor nation together. In 1792 the French Revolution was spinning out of control.Foreign armies were on the verge of invading France; the country washopelessly factionalized. The radicals,