he projectedonto the Afghans the values of an Englishman, which he mistakenly assumedwere universal. Blinded by narcissism, he misread every signal along the way.As a result his strategic moves--leaving the British army occupying Kabul,halving the Ghilzyes' stipend, trying not to overplay his hand in putting down therebellions--were exactly the opposite of what was needed. And on that fatefulday when he literally lost his head, he made the ultimate miscalculation,imagining that money and an appeal to self-interest would buy loyalty among thevery people he had so humiliated.Blindness and narcissism like this are not so rare; we find them every day.Our natural tendency is to see other people as mere reflections of our owndesires and values. Failing to understand the ways they are not like us, we aresurprised when they do not respond as we had imagined. We unintentionallyoffend and alienate people, then blame them, not our inability to understandthem, for the damage done. Understand: if you let narcissism act as a screen between you and otherpeople, you will misread them and your strategies will misfire. You must beaware of this and struggle to see others dispassionately. Every individual is likean alien culture. You must get inside his or her way of thinking, not as anexercise in sensitivity but out of strategic necessity. Only by knowing yourenemies can you ever hope to vanquish them.Be submissive so that he will trust you and you will thereby learn about histrue situation. Accept his ideas and respond to his affairs as if you were twins.Once you have learned everything, subtly gather in his power. Thus when theultimate day arrives, it will seem as if Heaven itself destroyed him.--Tai Kung, Six Secret Teachings (circa fourth century B.C.)THE CLOSE EMBRACEIn 1805, Napoleon Bonaparte humiliated the Austrians in the battles of Ulm andAusterlitz. In the subsequent treaty, he carved up the Austrian Empire, takingover its lands in Italy and Germany. For Napoleon all this was one part of a chessgame. His ultimate goal was to make Austria an ally--a weak and subordinateally, but one that would lend him weight in the courts of Europe, since Austriahad been a central force in European politics. As part of this overall strategy,Napoleon requested a new Austrian ambassador to France: Prince Klemens vonMetternich, at the time the Austrian ambassador to the Prussian court in Berlin.Confucius's evaluation of Yang Hu, a man who had been forced to flee fromone state to another because he proved greedy and disloyal each time heacquired power, provides a simple example of projecting behavior on thebasis of constancy. Based upon this repeated behavioral pattern, Confuciusaccurately predicted that Yang Hu would certainly suffer an ignominious end.More generally, Mencius subsequently stated: "A man who ceases his effortswhere he should not will abandon them anywhere. A man who isparsimonious with those with whom he should be generous will beparsimonious everywhere." Granting that people generally acquire fixedhabits early in life, a man's end may therefore be foreseen by midlife:"Someone who is still disliked at forty years of age will end by being