York: Viking, 1987. Lawrence, T. E. Seven Pillars of Wisdom . New York: Anchor Books, 1991. Leonard, Maurice. Mae West: Empress of Sex . New York: A Birch Lane Press Book, 1992. Lewis, Bernard. The Assassins: A Radical Sect in Islam . New York: Oxford University Press, 1987. Madariaga, Salvador de. Hernan Cortes: Conqueror of Mexico . Garden City, NY: Anchor Books, 1969. Mansfield, Harvey C. Machiavelli's Virtue . Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1998. Morris, Donald R. The Washing of the Spears: The Rise and Fall of the Zulu Nation . New York: Da Capo Press, 1998. Musashi, Miyamoto. The Way to Victory: The Annotated Book of Five Rings . Translated and commentary by Hidy Ochiai. Woodstock, NY: Overlook Press, 2001. Nietzsche, Friedrich. Ecce Homo . R. J. Hollingdale, tr. London: Penguin Books, 1992. Picq, Colonel Ardant du. Battle Studies: Ancient and Modern Battle . Colonel John N. Greely and Major Robert C. Cotton, trs. New York: Macmillan, 1921. Poole, H. John. Phantom Soldier: The Enemy's Answer to U.S. Firepower . Emerald Isle, NC: Posterity Press, 2001. Potter, Stephen. The Complete Upmanship . New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1971. Schmitt, Carl. The Concept of the Political . Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1996. Spoto, Donald. The Dark Side of Genius: The Life of Alfred Hitchcock . New York: Da Capo Press, 1999. Sugawara, Makoto. The Lives of Master Swordsmen . Tokyo: The East Publications, 1985. Sun-tzu. The Art of Warfare . Translated and with commentary by Roger T. Ames. New York: Ballantine Books, 1993. Sword and the Mind, The . Translated and with introduction by Hiroaki Sato. Woodstock, NY: Overlook Press, 1986. Tomkins, Calvin. Duchamp: A Biography . New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1996. Tsunetomo, Yamamato. Hagakure: The Book of the Samurai . William Scott Wilson, tr. Tokyo: Kodansha International, 1983. Wilden, Anthony. Man and Woman, War and Peace: The Strategist's Companion . London: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1987. Wilhelm, Richard. The I Ching (or Book of Changes ). Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1977. Wiles of War: 36 Military Strategies from Ancient China, The . Compiled and translated by Sun Haichen. Beijing: Foreign Languages Press, 1991. Xenophon's Anabasis: The March Up Country . W. H. D. Rouse, tr. New York: A Mentor Classic, 1959. Young, Desmond. Rommel . London: Collins, 1950. INDEX Aberdeen, Lord Abu Jahal abundance Abwehr (German intelligence) Academie Francaise Acamas acclimatization Achilles acting out action(s) inability to take indirect judging others by preemptive results of, importance of through inaction timing of unexpected. See unexpected strategies Adams, John Adams, Samuel ad-Din, Jalal advice Aesop Afghanistan British invasion of Islamic fundamentalism in Soviet invasion of Afranius, Lucius Agamemnon aggressive impulses/ aggression disguised or hidden friendship and holding back against as natural passive. See passive-aggression strategy aggressive passivity aging Agrippa, Vipsanius Aho, James A. Ajax Akiko Alamo, Battle of the Alcibiades Alcyoneus Aldrich, Robert Alexander I, czar of Russia Balkans and European vision of guerrilla warfare of Napoleonic Wars and personality of religious fervour of Alexander