your next fight.Being attacked is a sign that you are important enough to be a target. Youshould relish the attention and the chance to prove yourself. We all haveaggressive impulses that we are forced to repress; an enemy supplies you with anoutlet for these drives. At last you have someone on whom to unleash youraggression without feeling guilty.Leaders have always found it useful to have an enemy at their gates in timesof trouble, distracting the public from their difficulties. In using your enemies torally your troops, polarize them as far as possible: they will fight the morefiercely when they feel a little hatred. So exaggerate the differences between youand the enemy--draw the lines clearly. Xenophon made no effort to be fair; hedid not say that the Persians weren't really such a bad lot and had done much toadvance civilization. He called them barbarians, the antithesis of the Greeks. Hedescribed their recent treachery and said they were an evil culture that could findno favor with the gods. And so it is with you: victory is your goal, not fairnessand balance. Use the rhetoric of war to heighten the stakes and stimulate thespirit.What you want in warfare is room to maneuver. Tight corners spell death.Having enemies gives you options. You can play them off against each other,make one a friend as a way of attacking the other, on and on. Without enemiesyou will not know how or where to maneuver, and you will lose a sense of yourlimits, of how far you can go. Early on, Julius Caesar identified Pompey as hisenemy. Measuring his actions and calculating carefully, he did only those thingsthat left him in a solid position in relation to Pompey. When war finally broke out between the two men, Caesar was at his best. But once he defeated Pompeyand had no more such rivals, he lost all sense of proportion--in fact, he fanciedhimself a god. His defeat of Pompey was his own undoing. Your enemies forceon you a sense of realism and humility.Remember: there are always people out there who are more aggressive, moredevious, more ruthless than you are, and it is inevitable that some of them willcross your path. You will have a tendency to want to conciliate and compromisewith them. The reason is that such types are often brilliant deceivers who see thestrategic value in charm or in seeming to allow you plenty of space, but actuallytheir desires have no limit, and they are simply trying to disarm you. With somepeople you have to harden yourself, to recognize that there is no middle ground,no hope of conciliation. For your opponent your desire to compromise is aweapon to use against you. Know these dangerous enemies by their past: lookfor quick power grabs, sudden rises in fortune, previous acts of treachery. Onceyou suspect you are dealing with a Napoleon, do not lay down your arms orentrust them to someone else. You are the last line of your own defense. Authority: If you count on safety and do not think