could be applied to amuch wider arena of action.These ancestors’ brains were not yet burdened by all of the information thatcomes through language or the complexities of living in large groups. Interactingso directly with their environment, they could develop an intuitive feel over thecourse of a handful years. But for us, living in a much more complexenvironment, this process can take fifteen to twenty years. Our high-levelintuition, however, has its roots firmly in the primitive version.Intuition, primitive or high level, is essentially driven by memory. When wetake in information of any kind, we store it in mnemonic networks in the brain.The stability and durability of these networks depends on repetition, intensity ofexperience, and how deeply we pay attention. If we are half listening to avocabulary lesson in a foreign language, we are not likely to retain it on anylevel. But if we are in the country where the language is spoken, we will hear thesame words repeated in context; we will tend to pay deeper attention because weneed to, and the memory trace will be that much more stable.According to the model developed by the psychologist Kenneth Bowers,whenever we encounter a problem—a face we need to recognize, a word orphrase we need to recall—mnemonic networks within the brain becomeactivated as the search for the answer is guided along certain pathways. All ofthis occurs below the level of consciousness. When a particular network issufficiently activated, we suddenly become conscious of a possible name for theface, or a phrase that might be appropriate. These are low-level forms ofintuition that come to us in our everyday life; we cannot reconstruct the stepsthat went into recognizing a person’s face and remembering their name. People who spend years studying a particular subject or field develop somany of these memory networks and pathways that their brains are constantlysearching for and discovering connections between various pieces ofinformation. When confronted with a high-level problem, the search goes in ahundred directions below conscious awareness, guided by an intuitive sense ofwhere the answer might lie. All kinds of networks become activated, ideas andsolutions suddenly rising to the surface. Those that seem particularly fruitful andappropriate stick in the memory and are acted upon. Instead of having to reasonan answer through a step-by-step process, the answer comes to consciousnesswith a feeling of immediacy. The extremely high number of experiences andmemory networks that become hardwired allow the brains of Masters to explorean area that is so wide that it has the dimensions and feel of reality itself, of thedynamic.For someone like the chess Master Bobby Fischer, the number of times heexperienced similar sets of circumstances and witnessed the various movementsand reactions of different opponents created powerful memory traces. Heinternalized incredible numbers of patterns. At some point in his development,all of these memories fused into a feel for the overall dynamic of the game. Hewas no longer seeing simple moves on the chessboard and recalling variouscountermoves he had made in the past, but rather was able to see and recollectlong sequences of potential moves