mess they had been drawninto. Feeling intense pressure from all sides as news of the deal became public,their attempts to cover it up or explain it away only made the situation worse.In luring your enemies into such a trap, always try to make them feel as ifthey are in control of the situation. They will advance as far as you want them to.Many of the Americans involved in Iran-Contra believed they were the onesconning the naive Iranians.Finally, do not simply work to envelop your opponents' forces or immediateemotions, but rather envelop their whole strategy--indeed, their wholeconceptual framework. This ultimate form of envelopment involves firststudying the rigid, predictable parts of your opponents' strategy, then crafting anovel strategy of your own that goes outside their experience. Taking on thearmies of Islam, Russia, Poland, Hungary, and the Teutonic Order, the Mongolsdid not merely defeat them, they annihilated them--by inventing a new brand ofmobile warfare to use against an enemy mired in centuries-old methods offighting. This kind of strategic mismatch can lead to victory not just in any givenbattle but in large-scale campaigns--the ultimate goal in any form of war. Authority: Place a monkey in a cage, and it is the same as a pig, notbecause it isn't clever and quick, but because it has no place to freelyexercise its capabilities.--Huainanzi (second century B.C.)REVERSALThe danger of envelopment is that unless it is completely successful, it mayleave you in a vulnerable position. You have announced your plans. The enemyknows that you are trying to annihilate it, and unless you can quickly deliveryour knockout punch, it will work furiously not only to defend itself but todestroy you--for now your destruction is its only safeguard. Some armies thathave failed in their envelopments have found themselves later encircled by theirenemies. Use this strategy only when you have a reasonable chance of bringingit to the conclusion you desire. MANEUVER THEM INTO WEAKNESSTHE RIPENING-FOR-THE-SICKLE STRATEGYNo matter how strong you are, fighting endless battles with people is exhausting,costly, and unimaginative. Wise strategists generally prefer the art of maneuver:before the battle even begins, they find ways to put their opponents in positionsof such weakness that victory is easy and quick. Bait enemies into takingpositions that may seem alluring but are actually traps and blind alleys. If theirposition is strong, get them to abandon it by leading them on a wild-goose chase.Create dilemmas: devise maneuvers that give them a choice of ways to respond--all of them bad. Channel chaos and disorder in their direction. Confused,frustrated, and angry opponents are like ripe fruit on the bough: the slightestbreeze will make them fall.MANEUVER WARFAREThroughout history two distinct styles of warfare can be identified. The mostancient is the war of attrition: the enemy surrenders because you have killed somany of its men. A general fighting a war of attrition will calculate ways tooverwhelm the other side with larger numbers, or with the battle formation thatwill do the most damage, or with superior military technology. In any event,victory depends on wearing down the other side in battle.