stand still, he meant chargeforward. They were glum in times of prosperity, happy in the depths of winter.Although there was a clownish side to their behavior, the Windigokan could inspire great fear. No one ever knew what they would do next.The Windigokan were believed to be inhabited by terrifying spirits calledThunderers, which appeared in the form of giant birds. That made themsomehow inhuman. On the battlefield they were disruptive and unpredictable,and in raiding parties downright terrifying. In one such raid, witnessed by anoutsider, they gathered first in front of the Ojibwa chief's lodge and yelled, "Weare not going to war! We shall not kill the Sioux! We shall not scalp four of themand let the rest escape! We shall go in daytime!" They left camp that night,wearing costumes of rags and scraps, their bodies plastered with mud andpainted with splotches of weird color, their faces covered by frightening maskswith giant, beak-like noses. They made their way through the darkness,stumbling over themselves--it was hard to see through the masks--until theycame upon a large Sioux war party. Although outnumbered, they did not flee butdanced into the enemy's center. The grotesqueness of their dance made themseem to be possessed by demons. Some of the Sioux backed away; others drewclose, curious and confused. The leader of the Windigokan shouted, "Don'tshoot!" The Ojibwa warriors then pulled out guns hidden under their rags, killedfour Sioux, and scalped them. Then they danced away, the enemy too terrified bythis apparition to pursue them.After such an action, the mere appearance of the Windigokan was enoughfor the enemy to give them a wide berth and not risk any kind of encounter.InterpretationWhat made the Windigokan so frightening was the fact that, like the forces ofnature from which they claimed to derive their powers, they could be destructivefor no apparent reason. Their mounting of a raid was not governed by need orordered by the chief; their appearance bore no relation to anything known, as ifthey had rolled on the ground or in trays of paint. They might wander in the darkuntil they chanced on an enemy. Their dancing was like nothing anyone had seenor imagined. They might suddenly start to kill and scalp, then stop at an arbitrarynumber. In a tribal society governed by the strictest of codes, these were spiritsof random destruction and irrationality.The use of the unconventional can startle and give you an advantage, but itdoes not often create a sense of terror. What will bring you ultimate power in thisstrategy is to follow the Windigokan and adapt a kind of randomness that goesbeyond rational processes, as if you were possessed by a spirit of nature. Do thisall the time and you'll be locked up, but do it right, dropping hints of theirrational and random at the opportune moment, and those around you willalways have to wonder what you'll do next. You will inspire a respect and fear that will give you great power. An ordinary appearance spiced by a touch ofdivine madness is more shocking and alarming than an