Somehow Williamschanged those odds.Williams's method wasn't magic, or even intuition; it was simple enough. Hemade baseball pitchers his study, watching their patterns over the course of agame, a season, a career. He would ask the pitchers on his own team endlessquestions about their process, trying to get a feel for how they thought. At theplate he would empty his mind of everything but the pitcher, noticing theslightest hitch in his windup or change in his grip--anything that would signal hisintentions. The end result seemed uncanny: at bat, Williams was able to thinkhimself into the pitcher's mind and anticipate the pitch that was coming.Sometimes he would even see himself as another person--a pitcher trying tooutwit the great hitter Ted Williams. As Williams demonstrates, the ability tomimic and get inside your enemies' thought patterns depends on collecting asmuch information on them as you can, analyzing their past behavior for itshabitual patterns, and being alert to the signs they give off in the present.It is of course critical that people be unaware you are watching them soclosely. A friendly front, like Prince Metternich's to Napoleon, will help disguisewhat you're doing. Do not ask too many questions; the trick is to get people torelax and open up without prodding, shadowing them so quietly that they neverguess what you're really up to.Information is useless unless you know how to interpret it, how to use it totell appearance from reality. You must learn how to recognize a range ofpsychological types. Be alert, for instance, to the phenomenon of the maskedopposite: when someone strikingly manifests a particular personality trait, that trait may well be a cover-up. The oily character who is ingratiatingly effusivewith flattery may be hiding hostility and ill will; the aggressive bully may behiding insecurity; the moralizer may be making a show of purity to hidenefarious desires. Whether they're throwing dust in your eyes or their own--theymay be trying to convince themselves that they're not what they're afraid theyare--the opposite trait lurks below the surface.In general, it is easier to observe people in action, particularly in moments ofcrisis. Those are the times when they either reveal their weakness or struggle sohard to disguise it that you can see through the mask. You can actively probethem by doing things that seem harmless but get a response--maybe saysomething bold or provocative, then see how they react. Making peopleemotional, pushing their buttons, will touch some deep part of their nature.Either they will let slip some truth about themselves or they will put on a maskthat you, in the laboratory situation you have created, will be able to peer behind.A critical part of understanding people is gauging their powers of resistance.Without that knowledge you will either over-or underestimate them, dependingon your own levels of fear and confidence. You need to know how much fightpeople have in them. Someone hiding his cowardice and lack of resolve can bemade to surrender with a single violent push; someone desperate who has littleto lose will fight to the bitter end. The Mongols used