not take anybooks with us.MAO TSE-TUNG, 1893-1976Musashi's friends smelled a trap in Matashichiro's challenge and offered toaccompany him to the duel, but Musashi went alone. In his earlier fights with theYoshiokas, he had angered them by showing up hours late; this time, though, hecame early and hid in the trees. Matashichiro arrived with a small army. Musashiwould "arrive way behind schedule as usual," one of them said, "but that trickwon't work with us anymore!" Confident in their ambush, Matashichiro's menlay down and hid in the grass. Suddenly Musashi leaped out from behind his treeand shouted, "I've been waiting long enough. Draw your sword!" In one swift stroke, he killed Matashichiro, then took a position at an angle to the other men.All of them jumped to their feet, but they were caught off guard and startled, andinstead of surrounding him, they stood in a broken line. Musashi simply randown the line, killing the dazed men one after another in a matter of seconds.Musashi's victory sealed his reputation as one of Japan's greatest swordsmen.He now roamed the country looking for suitable challenges. In one town heheard of an undefeated warrior named Baiken whose weapons were a sickle anda long chain with a steel ball at the end of it. Musashi wanted to see theseweapons in action, but Baiken refused: the only way he could see them work,Baiken said, was by fighting a duel.REFRESHING THE MIND When you and your opponent are engaged incombat which is dragging on with no end in sight, it is crucial that youshould come up with a completely different technique. By refreshing yourmind and techniques as you continue to fight your opponent, you will find anappropriate rhythm-timing with which to defeat him. Whenever you and youropponent become stagnant, you must immediately employ a different methodof dealing with him in order to overcome him.THE BOOK OF FIVE RINGS, MIYAMOTO MUSASHI, 1584-1645Once again Musashi's friends chose the safe route: they urged him to walkaway. No one had come close to defeating Baiken, whose weapons wereunbeatable: swinging his ball in the air to build up momentum, he would forcehis victim backward with a relentless charge, then hurl the ball at the man's face.His opponent would have to fend off the ball and chain, and while his sword armwas occupied, in that brief instant Baiken would slash him with the sickle acrosshis neck.Ignoring the warnings of his friends, Musashi challenged Baiken andshowed up at the man's tent with two swords, one long, one short. Baiken hadnever seen someone fight with two swords. Also, instead of letting Baikencharge him, Musashi charged first, pushing his foe back on his heels. Baikenhesitated to throw the ball, for Musashi could parry it with one sword and strikehim with the other. As he looked for an opening, Musashi suddenly knocked himoff balance with a blow of the short sword and then, in a split second, followedwith a thrust of the long one, stabbing him through and killing the onceundefeated master Baiken.A few years later, Musashi heard about