static. Battles are in fact dramatic illusions, short moments in thelarger flow of events, which is fluid, dynamic, and susceptible to alterationthrough careful strategy. This way of thinking finds no honor or morality inwasting time, energy, and lives in battles. Instead wars of attrition are seen aslazy, reflecting the primitive human tendency to fight back reactively, without thinking.In a society full of attrition fighters, you will gain an instant advantage byconverting to maneuver. Your thought process will become more fluid, more onthe side of life, and you will be able to thrive off the rigid, battle-obsessedtendencies of the people around you. By always thinking first about the overallsituation and about how to maneuver people into positions of weakness ratherthan fight them, you will make your battles less bloody--which, since life is longand conflict is endless, is wise if you want a fruitful and enduring career. And awar of maneuver is just as decisive as a war of attrition. Think of weakeningyour enemies as ripening them like grain, ready to be cut down at the rightmoment.The following are the four main principles of maneuver warfare: Craft a plan with branches. Maneuver warfare depends on planning, and theplan has to be right. Too rigid and you leave yourself no room to adjust to theinevitable chaos and friction of war; too loose and unforeseen events willconfuse and overwhelm you. The perfect plan stems from a detailed analysis ofthe situation, which allows you to decide on the best direction to follow or theperfect position to occupy and suggests several effective options (branches) totake, depending on what the enemy throws at you. A plan with branches lets yououtmaneuver your enemy because your responses to changing circumstances arefaster and more rational. Give yourself room to maneuver. You cannot be mobile, you cannot maneuverfreely, if you put yourself in cramped spaces or tie yourself down to positionsthat do not allow you to move. Consider the ability to move and keeping openmore options than your enemy has as more important than holding territories orpossessions. You want open space, not dead positions. This means not burdeningyourself with commitments that will limit your options. It means not takingstances that leave you nowhere to go. The need for space is psychological aswell as physical: you must have an unfettered mind to create anythingworthwhile. Give your enemy dilemmas, not problems. Most of your opponents are likely to be clever and resourceful; if your maneuvers simply present them with aproblem, they will inevitably solve it. But a dilemma is different: whatever theydo, however they respond--retreat, advance, stay still--they are still in trouble.Make every option bad: if you maneuver quickly to a point, for instance, you canforce your enemies either to fight before they are ready or to retreat. Tryconstantly to put them in positions that seem alluring but are traps. Create maximum disorder. Your enemy depends on being able to read you, toget some sense of your intentions. The goal of your maneuvers should be tomake that impossible, to send the enemy on