an enigmatic smile on his face."It was hard for Hitchcock's colleagues to understand how a man doing suchstressful work could stay so calm and detached. Some thought it was part of hischaracter--that there was something inherently cold-blooded about him. Othersthought it a gimmick, a put-on. Few suspected the truth: before the filmmakinghad even begun, Hitchcock would have prepared for it with such intenseattention to detail that nothing could go wrong. He was completely in control; notemperamental actress, no panicky art director, no meddling producer couldupset him or interfere with his plans. Feeling such absolute security in what hehad set up, he could afford to lie back and fall asleep.Hitchcock's process began with a storyline, whether from a novel or an ideaof his own. As if he had a movie projector in his head, he would begin tovisualize the film. Next, he would start meeting with a writer, who would soonrealize that this job was unlike any other. Instead of taking some producer's half-baked idea and turning it into a screenplay, the writer was simply there to put onpaper the dream trapped in Hitchcock's mind. He or she would add flesh andbones to the characters and would of course write the dialog, but not much else.When Hitchcock sat down with the writer Samuel Taylor for the first scriptmeeting on the movie Vertigo (1958), his descriptions of several scenes were sovivid, so intense, that the experiences seemed almost to have been real, or maybesomething he had dreamed. This completeness of vision foreclosed creativeconflict. As Taylor soon realized, although he was writing the script, it wouldremain a Hitchcock creation.Once the screenplay was finished, Hitchcock would transform it into anelaborate shooting script. Blocking, camera positions, lighting, and setdimensions were spelled out in detailed notes. Most directors leave themselvessome latitude, shooting scenes from several angles, for example, to give the filmeditor options to work with later on. Not Hitchcock: he essentially edited theentire film in the shooting script. He knew exactly what he wanted and wrote itdown. If a producer or actor tried to add or change a scene, Hitchcock wasoutwardly pleasant--he could afford to pretend to listen--but inside he was totallyunmoved. Nothing was left to chance. For the building of the sets (quite elaborate in amovie like Rear Window), Hitchcock would present the production designer withprecise blueprints, floor plans, incredibly detailed lists of props. He supervisedevery aspect of set construction. He was particularly attentive to the clothes ofhis leading actresses: according to Edith Head, costumer on many Hitchcockmovies, including Dial M for Murder in 1954, "There was a reason for everycolor, every style, and he was absolutely certain about everything he settled on.For one scene he saw [Grace Kelly] in pale green, for another in white chiffon,for another in gold. He was really putting a dream together in the studio." Whenthe actress Kim Novak refused to wear a gray suit in Vertigo because she felt itmade her look washed out, Hitchcock told her he wanted her to look like awoman of mystery who had