he could tell were inwardlygloating that they finally had him, Boyd announced, "Gentlemen, I amauthorized by the secretary of defense to inform you that this is not a decisionbrief. This briefing is for information purposes only." The project, he said, hadalready been approved. He went on to deliver his presentation, making it as longas possible--twisting the knife in their backs. He wanted them to feel humiliatedand wary of messing with him again.As a fighter pilot, Boyd had trained himself to think several moves ahead ofhis opponents, always aiming to surprise them with some terrifying maneuver. He incorporated this strategy into his bureaucratic battles. When a general gavehim some order that was clearly designed to ruin the plans for his lightweight jet,he would smile, nod, and say, "Sir, I'll be happy to follow that order. But I wantyou to put it in writing." Generals liked to issue commands verbally rather thanputting them on paper as a way to cover themselves in case things went bad.Caught off guard, the general would either have to drop the order or deny therequest to put it in writing--which, if publicized, would make him look terrible.Either way he was trapped.After several years of dealing with Boyd, generals and their minions learnedto avoid him--and his foul cigars, his verbal abuse, his knife-twisting tactics--like the plague. Given this wide berth, he was able to push his designs for the F-15 and F-16 through the Pentagon's almost impossible process, leaving anenduring imprint on the air force by creating two of its most famous andeffective jet fighters.InterpretationBoyd realized early on that his project was unpopular at the Pentagon and that hewould meet opposition and obstruction up and down the line. If he tried to fighteveryone, to take on every contractor and general, he would exhaust himself andgo down in flames. Boyd was a strategist of the highest order--his thinkingwould later have a major influence on Operation Desert Storm--and a strategistnever hits strength against strength; instead he probes the enemy's weaknesses.And a bureaucracy like the Pentagon inevitably has weaknesses, which Boydknew how to locate.The people in Boyd's Pentagon wanted to fit in and be liked. They werepolitical people, careful about their reputations; they were also very busy andhad little time to waste. Boyd's strategy was simple: over the years he wouldestablish a reputation for being difficult, even nasty. To get involved with Boydcould mean an ugly public fight that would sully your reputation, waste yourtime, and hurt you politically. In essence Boyd transformed himself into a kindof porcupine. No animal wants to take on a creature that can do so muchdamage, no matter how small it is; even tigers will leave it alone. And being leftalone gave Boyd staying power, allowing him to survive long enough toshepherd the F-15 and F-16 through.Reputation, Boyd knew, is key. Your own reputation may not beintimidating; after all, we all have to fit in, play politics, seem nice andaccommodating. Most often this works fine, but in moments of danger anddifficulty being seen as so nice