of architectural structure. Fame and moneysoon followed. No good can ever come from deviating from the path that you were destined tofollow. You will be assailed by varieties of hidden pain. Most often you deviatebecause of the lure of money, of more immediate prospects of prosperity.Because this does not comply with something deep within you, your interest willlag and eventually the money will not come so easily. You will search for othereasy sources of money, moving further and further away from your path. Notseeing clearly ahead of you, you will end up in a dead-end career. Even if yourmaterial needs are met, you will feel an emptiness inside that you will need tofill with any kind of belief system, drugs, or diversions. There is no compromisehere, no way of escaping the dynamic. You will recognize how far you havedeviated by the depth of your pain and frustration. You must listen to themessage of this frustration, this pain, and let it guide you as clearly as Fuller’svoice guided him. It is a matter of life and death.The way back requires a sacrifice. You cannot have everything in thepresent. The road to mastery requires patience. You will have to keep your focuson five or ten years down the road, when you will reap the rewards of yourefforts. The process of getting there, however, is full of challenges and pleasures.Make your return to the path a resolution you set for yourself, and then tellothers about it. It becomes a matter of shame and embarrassment to deviate fromthis path. In the end, the money and success that truly last come not to those whofocus on such things as goals, but rather to those who focus on mastery andfulfilling their Life’s Task.REVERSALSome people do not become aware of inclinations or future career paths in theirchildhood, but instead are made painfully aware of their limitations. They are notgood at what others seem to find easy or manageable. The idea of a calling inlife is alien to them. In some cases they internalize the judgments and criticismsof others, and come to see themselves as essentially deficient. If they are notcareful, this can become a self-fulfilling prophecy.Nobody faced this fate more powerfully than Temple Grandin. In 1950, atthe age of three, she was diagnosed with autism. She had yet to make anyprogress in learning language, and it was thought that this would remain hercondition—and that she would need to be institutionalized her entire life. But hermother wanted to try one last option before giving up: she sent Temple to aspeech therapist, who miraculously, slowly managed to teach her language,which allowed her to attend school and begin to learn what other children were which allowed her to attend school and begin to learn what other children werelearning.Despite this improvement, Temple’s future appeared limited at best. Hermind functioned in a different way—she thought in terms of images, not words.In order to learn a word she had to be able to picture it in her mind. This made ithard to understand