theirrelationship deepened—clearly Davy saw him as a younger version of himself.That summer Davy prepared to go on an extended tour of Europe, andinvited Faraday to come along as his laboratory assistant and valet. AlthoughFaraday did not relish the thought of acting as a personal servant, the chance tomeet some of Europe’s most preeminent scientists and work so closely withDavy on his experiments (he traveled with a kind of portable laboratory) was toomuch to pass up. It was best to be around him as much as possible and soak uphis knowledge, his whole way of thinking.During the trip, Faraday assisted Davy on a particular experiment that wouldleave a lasting impression on him. The exact chemical composition of diamondshad long been in dispute. They appeared to be composed of carbon. But howcould something so beautiful be made of exactly the same substance as charcoal?There had to be more to its chemical composition, but there was no known wayto divide a diamond into its constituent elements. It was a problem that hadbaffled many scientists. Davy had long entertained the radical idea that it wasnot the elements themselves that determined the properties of things. Perhapscharcoal and diamonds had precisely the same chemical composition, but it waschanges in their underlying molecular structure that determined their form. Thiswas a much more dynamic view of nature, but Davy had no way to prove thisuntil suddenly, traveling through France, an idea for the perfect experiment cameto him.After being reminded that one of the most powerful lenses of the timeresided at the Accademia del Cimento in Florence, Davy made a detour there.Gaining permission to use the lens, he placed a diamond in a tiny glass globecontaining pure oxygen and used the lens to focus intense sunlight on the globeuntil the diamond completely evaporated. Inside the globe, all that remained ofthe diamond was carbon dioxide gas, proving that it was indeed composed of pure carbon. Therefore, what turned carbon into either charcoal or a diamondmust involve a change in the underlying molecular structure. Nothing else couldexplain the results of his experiment. What impressed Faraday was the thoughtprocess that went into this. From a simple speculation, Davy found his way tothe one experiment that would physically demonstrate his idea by excluding allother possible explanations. This was a highly creative way of thinking, and itwas the source of Davy’s power as a chemist.On his return to the Royal Institution, Faraday was given a pay increase anda new title—Assistant and Superintendent of the Apparatus and MineralogicalCollection. And soon a pattern developed. Davy liked to spend most of his timeon the road. Trusting Faraday’s growing skills, he would send back to him allkinds of mineral samples to analyze. Davy had slowly grown dependent on hisassistant; in letters to Faraday he praised him as one of the best analytic chemistshe knew—he had trained him well. But by the year 1821, Faraday had toconfront an unpleasant reality: Davy was keeping him under his thumb. Aftereight years of an intense apprenticeship, he was now an accomplished chemist