newprovocative acts, culminating in the creation of his own rival school andprofessional society. His books are written in a style to match this strategy:violent and arcane. It was as if he occasionally liked to throw little bombs intothe world, thriving on the terror and attention they got him.People who feel weak and powerless are often tempted into outbursts ofanger or irrational behavior, which keeps those around them in suspense as towhen the next attack will come. These fits of temper, like other, more seriouskinds of terror, can have a chilling effect on their targets, sapping the will toresist; when the simplest dealings with these people are potentially sounpleasant, why fight? Why not just give in? A violent temper or outlandish act,volcanic and startling, can also create the illusion of power, disguising actualweaknesses and insecurities. And an emotional or out-of-control response to itjust plays into the other person's hands, creating the kind of chaos and attentionhe or she thrives on. If you have to deal with a terroristic spouse or boss, it isbest to fight back in a determined but dispassionate manner--the response suchtypes least expect.Although organized terrorism has evolved and technology has increased itscapacity for violence, its essential makeup does not seem to have changed--theelements developed by Narodnaya Volia are still in effect. Yet the question manyask today is whether a new, more virulent kind of terrorism may be developing,one far surpassing the classical version. If terrorists could get hold of morepotent armaments, for example--nuclear or biological weapons, say--and had thestomach to use them, their kind of war and the power it may bring them wouldmake a qualitative leap into a new, apocalyptic form. But perhaps a new form ofterrorism has already emerged that does not need the threat of dirty weapons tocreate a more devastating result.On September 11, 2001, a handful of terrorists linked to the Islamic AlQaeda movement produced the single deadliest terrorist action to date, in theirattacks on the World Trade Center in New York City and the Pentagon outsideWashington, D.C. The attack had many of the earmarks of classical terrorism: asmall group, with extremely limited means, using the technology of the UnitedStates at their disposal, was able to strike with maximum effect. Here was thefamiliar asymmetry of forces in which smallness becomes an asset, beinginconspicuous within the larger population and accordingly quite difficult todetect. The terror of the event itself set in motion a paniclike reaction fromwhich the United States has still not fully recovered. The drama and symbolismof the Twin Towers themselves, not to mention the Pentagon, created agrotesquely compelling spectacle that gave the terrorists maximum exposure while incisively demonstrating the vulnerability of the United States, oftendescribed in recent years as the world's only remaining superpower. There werethose around the world who had never imagined that America could be soquickly and seriously harmed but were delighted to find they were wrong.Many deny that 9/11 was a new form of terrorism. It simply distinguisheditself, they say, by the number of its victims; the change was quantitative,