boxing, and hequestioned how long he could keep this up. It was a dog-eat-dog career andtrainers rarely lasted very long in the business. Would this turn into yet anotherroutine in which he would endlessly repeat the same exercises he had learnedfrom Futch? A part of him yearned to return to fighting—at least fighting wasnot so predictable.One day Virgil Hill showed him a technique he had picked up from someCuban fighters: Instead of working with a punching bag, they mostly trainedwith the coach, who wore large padded mitts. Standing in the ring, the fightershalf-sparred with the coach and practiced their punches. Roach tried it with Hilland his eyes lit up. It brought him back into the ring, but there was somethingelse. Boxing, he felt, had become stale, as had its training methods. In his mind,he saw a way to adapt the mitt work for more than just punching practice. Itcould be a way for a trainer to devise an entire strategy in the ring anddemonstrate it to his fighter in real time. It could revolutionize and revitalize thesport itself. Roach began to develop this with the stable of fighters that he nowtrained. He instructed them in maneuvers that were much more fluid and trained. He instructed them in maneuvers that were much more fluid andstrategic.Soon he left Futch to work on his own. He quickly established a reputationfor preparing his boxers better than anyone else, and within a few years he roseto become the most successful trainer of his generation. In dealing with your career and its inevitable changes, you must think in thefollowing way: You are not tied to a particular position; your loyalty is not to acareer or a company. You are committed to your Life’s Task, to giving it fullexpression. It is up to you to find it and guide it correctly. It is not up to others toprotect or help you. You are on your own. Change is inevitable, particularly insuch a revolutionary moment as ours. Since you are on your own, it is up to youto foresee the changes going on right now in your profession. You must adaptyour Life’s Task to these circumstances. You do not hold on to past ways ofdoing things, because that will ensure you will fall behind and suffer for it. Youare flexible and always looking to adapt.If change is forced upon you, as it was for Freddie Roach, you must resist thetemptation to overreact or feel sorry for yourself. Roach instinctively found hisway back to the ring because he understood that what he loved was not boxingper se, but competitive sports and strategizing. Thinking in this way, he couldadapt his inclinations to a new direction within boxing. Like Roach, you don’twant to abandon the skills and experience you have gained, but to find a newway to apply them. Your eye is on the future, not the past. Often such creativereadjustments lead to a superior path for us—we are shaken out of ourcomplacency and forced to reassess where we are headed.