written. She had made her reputation as a saucy, aggressive blonde with adevastating wit. Hollywood producers had thought of her before, but she was toobawdy for film. And by 1932 she was thirty-nine years old, on the plump side,and considered too old to be making a film debut. Nevertheless, Le Baron waswilling to take a risk to liven up the picture. She would create a splash, providean angle for promotion, then be sent back to Broadway, where she belonged.Paramount offered her a two-month contract at five thousand dollars a week, agenerous deal for the times. West happily accepted.At first West was a little difficult. She had been told to lose some weight, butshe hated dieting and quickly gave up. Instead she had her hair dyed a ratherindecent platinum blond. She hated the script--the dialog was flat and hercharacter unimportant. The part needed to be rewritten, and West offered herservices as a writer. Hollywood people were used to dealing with difficultactresses and had a panoply of tactics for taming them, particularly those whowanted their parts rewritten. What was unusual was an actress who offered torewrite her own lines. Baffled by the request, even from someone who hadwritten for Broadway, the studio executives came back with a firm refusal.Giving her that privilege would set a terrible precedent. West countered byrefusing to continue with the film until they let her rewrite the dialog.Paramount boss Adolph Zukor had seen West's screen test and liked her lookand manner. The picture needed her. Zukor had a studio executive take her out todinner on her birthday to try to cajole her; the goal was to calm her down enoughso that they could begin shooting. Once cameras were rolling, he thought, theywould find a way to get West to behave. But that night at dinner, West pulled outa check from her handbag and handed it to the executive. It was for twentythousand dollars, the amount she had earned to that point. She was giving themoney back to the studio and, thanking Paramount for the opportunity, told the executive she was leaving for New York the next morning.Zukor, immediately apprised of this news, was caught completely offbalance. West seemed willing to lose substantial money, risk a lawsuit for breachof contract, and guarantee that she would never work in Hollywood again. Zukortook another look at the script--perhaps she was right and the dialog was lousy.She would rather give up money and a career than be in an inferior picture! Hedecided to offer her a compromise: she could write her own dialog, and theywould shoot two versions of the movie, one hers, one the studio's. That wouldcost a little more, but they would get West on film. If her version was better,which Zukor thought unlikely, that would only improve the picture; if not, theywould go with the original version. Paramount couldn't lose.West accepted the compromise and shooting began. One person, however,was not amused: the director, Archie L. Mayo, a man with an extensive resume.Not only had West changed the script to