to get a complete lay of theland. You are like an anthropologist studying an alien culture, attuned to all of itsnuances and conventions. You are not there to change that culture; you will onlyend up being killed, or in the case of work, fired. Later, when you have attainedpower and mastery, you will be the one to rewrite or destroy these same rules.Every task you are given, no matter how menial, offers opportunities toobserve this world at work. No detail about the people within it is too trivial.Everything you see or hear is a sign for you to decode. Over time, you will beginto see and understand more of the reality that eluded you at first. For instance, aperson whom you initially thought had great power ended up being someonewith more bark than bite. Slowly, you begin to see behind the appearances. Asyou amass more information about the rules and power dynamics of your new environment, you can begin to analyze why they exist, and how they relate tolarger trends in the field. You move from observation to analysis, honing yourreasoning skills, but only after months of careful attention.We can see how Charles Darwin followed this step quite clearly. Byspending the first few months studying life on board the ship and perceiving theunwritten rules, he made his time for science much more productive. Byenabling himself to fit in, he was able to avoid needless battles that would havelater disrupted his scientific work, not to mention the emotional turmoil thesewould have presented to him. He later practiced the same technique withgauchos and other local communities he came in contact with. This allowed himto extend the regions he could explore and the specimens he could collect. Onanother level, he slowly transformed himself into perhaps the most astuteobserver of nature the world has ever known. Emptying himself of anypreconceptions about life and its origins, Darwin trained himself to see things asthey are. He did not theorize or generalize about what he was seeing until he hadamassed enough information. Submitting to and absorbing the reality of allaspects of this voyage, he ended up piercing one of the most fundamentalrealities of all—the evolution of all living forms.Understand: there are several critical reasons why you must follow this step.First, knowing your environment inside and out will help you in navigating itand avoiding costly mistakes. You are like a hunter: your knowledge of everydetail of the forest and of the ecosystem as a whole will give you many moreoptions for survival and success. Second, the ability to observe any unfamiliarenvironment will become a critical lifelong skill. You will develop the habit ofstilling your ego and looking outward instead of inward. You will see in anyencounter what most people miss because they are thinking of themselves. Youwill cultivate a keen eye for human psychology, and strengthen your ability tofocus. Finally, you will become accustomed to observing first, basing your ideasand theories on what you have seen with your eyes, and then analyzing what youfind. This will be a