they were amazed at what hadhappened. Fear and trembling came over them, so that they did not wait forone another, but with one impulse all rushed out and fled by every pathacross the plain and through the country.... Then the men of Israel, every onethat was a soldier, rushed out upon them.... And when the Israelites heard it,with one accord they fell upon the enemy, and cut them down as far asChoba. JUDITH 7:19-15:7Most people have the problem of seeing war as a separate activity unrelatedto other realms of human life. But in fact war is a form of power--Carl vonClausewitz called it "politics by other means"--and all forms of power share thesame essential structures.The most visible thing about power is its outward manifestation, what itswitnesses see and feel. An army has its size, its weaponry, its shows ofdiscipline, its aggressive maneuvers; individuals have many ways of showingtheir position and influence. It is the nature of power to present a forceful front,to seem menacing and intimidating, strong and decisive. But this outwarddisplay is often exaggerated or even downright deceptive, since power does notdare show its weaknesses. And beneath the display is the support on whichpower rests--its "center of gravity." The phrase is von Clausewitz's, whoelaborated it as "the hub of all power and movement, on which everythingdepends." This is the part that governs the whole, a kind of nerve center.To attack this center of gravity, to neutralize or destroy it, is the ultimatestrategy in war, for without it the whole structure will collapse. The enemy mayhave great generals and strong armies, like Hannibal and his invincible army inItaly, but without a center of gravity those armies cannot move and have no forceor coherence. Hitting the center will have devastating psychological effects,throwing the enemy off balance and inducing a creeping panic. If conventionalgenerals look at the physical aspect of the enemy army, focusing on itsweaknesses and trying to exploit them, superior strategists look behind andbeyond, to the support system. The enemy's center of gravity is where an injurywill hurt him most, his point of greatest vulnerability. Hitting him there is thebest way to end a conflict definitively and economically.The key is analyzing the enemy force to determine its centers of gravity. Inlooking for those centers, it is crucial not to be misled by the intimidating ordazzling exterior, mistaking the outward appearance for what sets it in motion.You will probably have to take several steps, one by one, to uncover this ultimatepower source, peeling away layer after layer. Remember Scipio, who saw firstthat Hannibal depended on Spain, then that Spain depended on Carthage, thenthat Carthage depended on its material prosperity, which itself had particularsources. Strike at Carthage's prosperity, as Scipio eventually did, and the wholething would fall apart.To find a group's center of gravity, you must understand its structure and theculture within which it operates. If your enemies are individuals, you mustfathom their psychology, what makes them tick, the structure of their thinking and priorities.In crafting a strategy to defeat the United