already proofread, and almost every day henoticed some new error for which he was blamed. He started to feel like he waslosing his mind. If this continued any longer he would be fired. Clearly,somebody was sabotaging his work, and when he complained to his fellowprinters, they attributed it all to a mischievous ghost who was known to hauntthe room. Finally figuring out what this meant, he let go of his principles andcontributed to the beer fund; the mistakes suddenly disappearing along with theghost.After this incident and several other indiscretions in London, Franklin beganto seriously wonder about himself. He seemed hopelessly naïve, constantly to seriously wonder about himself. He seemed hopelessly naïve, constantlymisreading the intentions of the people around him. Thinking about thisproblem, he was struck by an apparent paradox: when it came to his work, hewas supremely rational and realistic, always looking to improve himself. Withhis writing, for instance, he could see his weaknesses clearly and practiced hardto overcome them. But with people it was virtually the opposite: he wouldinevitably become swept up in his emotions and lose all contact with reality.With his brother, he wanted to impress him by revealing his authorship of theletters, totally unaware of the envy and malevolence he would unleash; withKeith, he was so wrapped up in his dreams that he paid no attention to obvioussigns that the governor was all talk; with the printers, his anger blinded him tothe fact that they would obviously resent his attempts at reform. What wasworse, he seemed incapable of changing this self-absorbed dynamic.Determined to break this pattern and change his ways, he decided there wasonly one solution: in all of his future interactions with people, he would forcehimself to take an initial step backward and not get emotional. From this moredetached position, he would focus completely on the people he was dealing with,cutting off his own insecurities and desires from the equation. Exercising hismind this way every time, it would turn into a habit. In imagining how thiswould work, he had a strange sensation. It reminded him of the process he wentthrough in creating the Dogood letters—thinking inside the character he hadcreated, entering her world, and making her come alive in his mind. In essence,he would be applying this literary skill to everyday life. Gaining position insidepeople’s minds, he could see how to melt their resistance or thwart theirmalevolent plans.To make this process foolproof, he decided he would also have to adopt anew philosophy: complete and radical acceptance of human nature. Peoplepossess ingrained qualities and characters. Some are frivolous like Keith, orvindictive like his brother, or rigid like the printers. There are people like thiseverywhere; it has been that way since the dawn of civilization. To get upset ortry to alter them is futile—it will only make them bitter and resentful. Better toaccept such people as one accepts the thorns on a rose. Better to observe andaccumulate knowledge on human nature, as one accumulates knowledge in thesciences. If he could follow this new path in life, he would