HENRY V, WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, 1564-1616The practices grew more intense still; the players had never worked this hardin their lives. Yet they found themselves showing up earlier and staying later. Bythe season's first game, Lombardi had prepared them for every contingency. Sickof training, they were grateful to be playing in a real game at last--and, to theirsurprise, all that work made the game a lot easier. They were more prepared thanthe other team and less tired in the fourth quarter. They won their first threegames. With this sudden success, their morale and confidence soared.The Packers finished the year with a 7-5 record, a remarkable turnaroundfrom 1958's 1-10-1. After one season under Lombardi, they had become themost tight-knit team in professional sports. No one wanted to leave the Packers.In 1960 they reached the championship game, and in 1961 they won it, withmany more to follow. Over the years various of Lombardi's Packers would try toexplain how he had transformed them, but none of them could really say how hehad pulled it off.InterpretationWhen Vince Lombardi took over the Packers, he recognized the problem rightaway: the team was infected with adolescent defeatism. Teenagers will oftenstrike a pose that is simultaneously rebellious and lackadaisical. It's a way ofstaying in place: trying harder brings more risk of failure, which they cannothandle, so they lower their expectations, finding nobility in slacking off andmediocrity. Losing hurts less when they embrace it.Groups can get infected with this spirit without realizing it. All they need isa few setbacks, a few adolescent-minded individuals, and slowly expectationslower and defeatism sets in. The leader who tries to change the group's spiritdirectly--yelling, demanding, disciplining--actually plays into the teenagedynamic and reinforces the desire to rebel.Lombardi was a motivational genius who saw everything in psychologicalterms. To him the National Football League teams were virtually equal in talent.The differences lay in attitude and morale: reversing the Packers' defeatismwould translate into wins, which would lift their morale, which in turn wouldbring more wins. Lombardi knew he had to approach his players indirectly--hadto trick them into changing. He began with a show of confidence, talking as if heassumed they were winners who had fallen on bad times. That got under theirskins, far more than they realized. Then, in his practices, Lombardi didn't makedemands--a defensive, whiny approach that betrays insecurity. Instead hechanged the practices' spirit, making them quiet, intense, focused, workmanlike. He knew that willpower is tied to what you believe possible; expand that beliefand you try harder. Lombardi created a better team--which won its first game--by making its players see possibilities. Defeat was no longer comfortable.Understand: a group has a collective personality that hardens over time, andsometimes that personality is dysfunctional or adolescent. Changing it isdifficult; people prefer what they know, even if it doesn't work. If you lead thiskind of group, do not play into its negative dynamic. Announcing intentions andmaking demands will leave people defensive and feeling like children. LikeLombardi, play the wily parent. Ask more of them. Expect them to work likeadults. Quietly alter the spirit