In truth, the invasion ofFrance was the opportunity he craved to turn the war around.Themistocles therefore had two urgent and simultaneous problems to solve.He must take effective action, not only to block any projected withdrawal bythe Peloponnesian contingents, but also to ensure that they fought where andwhen he planned that they should; and he must somehow tempt Xerxes intomaking the one move which might lead to a Greek victory--that is, orderinghis fleet to attack in the Salamis channel.... The device Themistocles finally adopted--what Plutarch calls "his celebrated trick with Sicinnus"--is one ofthe most enigmatic episodes in all Greek history. Evidence for it goes back asfar as Aeschylus's Persians, performed only eight years after Salamis.... Whatseems to have happened was this. At some point during the long argumentover final strategy, Themistocles, anticipating defeat, slipped away from theconference and sent for his children's tutor, "the most faithful of his slaves,"an Asiatic Greek named Sicinnus. This man was given a carefully preparedmessage, or letter, to deliver to Xerxes, and sent off across the straits in asmall boat, probably just before dawn on 19 September.... The substance ofthe message was as follows. Themistocles sent it under his own name, ascommander of the Athenian contingent: he had, he told Xerxes, changedsides, and was now ardently desirous of a Persian victory. (No real reason isgiven for this volte-face, though disgust at the attitude of the Peloponnesiancontingents would provide a strong enough motive to carry conviction.) TheGreek allies were at each other's throats, and would offer no seriousopposition--"on the contrary, you will see the pro-Persians amongst themfighting the rest." Furthermore, they were planning a general withdrawalfrom Salamis under cover of darkness, to be carried out the following night....If Xerxes struck at once, on the divide-and-rule principle, he could forestallsuch a move. "Attack them and destroy their naval power, while they are stilldisorganized and before they have joined forces with their land army" [Plut.Them. 12.4]. The conquest of the Peloponnese would then become acomparatively simple matter. On the other hand, if Xerxes allowed thevarious Greek contingents to slip through his fingers and dispersehomewards, the war might drag on indefinitely, since he would have to dealwith each separate city-state in turn. Sicinnus's arguments impressed thePersian admirals, and they duly passed them on to the Great King himself.Xerxes, we are told, believed the report because it "was in itself plausible"--and also because it was just what he wanted to hear: there was troublebrewing in Ionia and the empire, and the sooner this Greek expedition waswound up, the better. Themistocles, always a shrewd judge of human nature,knew very well that after so many days of delay and frustration, the GreatKing would grasp at anything which seemed to offer a quick solution to hisproblem.THE GRECO-PERSIAN WARS, PETER GREEN, 1996Hitler's commander in Western Europe was Field Marshal Gerd vonRunstedt, Germany's most respected general. To further solidify the defensiveposition in France, Hitler made General Erwin Rommel the commander of the forces along the French coast. Rommel proceeded to make improvements in theAtlantic Wall, turning