stance of restless bellicosity and by a mirage of greatmilitary strength: an army of "eight million bayonets," whose parades weredashing affairs of bersaglieri on the run and roaring motorized columns; andan air force greatly respected, not least for its spectacular long-range flightsto the North Pole and South America; and a navy that could acquire manyimpressive ships because so little of its funding was wasted on gunnery trialsand navigation. By a military policy in which stage management dominatedover the sordid needs of war preparation, Mussolini sacrificed real strengthfor the sake of hugely magnified images of what little strength there was--butthe results of suasion that those images evoked were very real: Britain andFrance were both successfully dissuaded from interfering with Italy'sconquest of Ethiopia, its intervention in Spain, and the subjection of Albania;and none dared oppose Italy's claim to be accepted as a Great Power, whoseinterests had to be accommodated sometimes in tangible ways such as thelicenses obtained by Italian banks in Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania, andYugoslavia). Only Mussolini's last-minute decision to enter the war in June1940--when his own considerable prudence was overcome by the irresistibletemptation of sharing in the spoils of the French collapse--brought years ofsuccessful deception (and self-deception) to an end.STRATEGY: THE LOGIC OF WAR AND PEACE, EDWARD N. LUTTWAK,1987 When we are under attack, the temptation is to get emotional, to tell theaggressors to stop, to make threats as to what we'll do if they keep going. Thatputs us in a weak position: we've revealed both our fears and our plans, andwords rarely deter aggressors. Sending them a message through a third party orrevealing it indirectly through action is much more effective. That way yousignal that you are already maneuvering against them. Keep the threat veiled: ifthey can only glimpse what you are up to, they will have to imagine the rest.Making them see you as calculating and strategic will have a chilling effect ontheir desires to harm or attack you. It is not worth the risk to find out what youmay be up to. 4. In the early 1950s, John Boyd (1927-97) served with distinction as a fighterpilot in the Korean War. By the middle of that decade, he was the most respectedflight instructor at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada; he was virtually unbeatablein practice dogfights, so good that he was asked to rewrite the manual on fighter-pilot tactics. He had developed a style that would demoralize and terrorize, getinside the opponent's head, disrupt his ability to react. Boyd was clever andfearless. But none of his training and skill, none of his brushes with death as apilot, prepared him for the bloodless backstabbing, political maneuvering, andindirect warfare of the Pentagon, where he was assigned in 1966 to help designlightweight jet fighters.As Major Boyd quickly discovered, Pentagon bureaucrats were moreconcerned with their careers than with national defense. They were lessinterested in developing the best new fighter than in satisfying contractors, oftenbuying their new technological gear regardless of its suitability. Boyd, as a pilot,had trained himself to see every situation as