reach it. In grand strategy you consider the political ramificationsand long-term consequences of what you do. Instead of reacting emotionally topeople, you take control, and make your actions more dimensional, subtle, andeffective. Let others get caught up in the twists and turns of the battle, relishingtheir little victories. Grand strategy will bring you the ultimate reward: the lastlaugh.Readiness is everything. Resolution is indissolubly bound up with caution. Ifan individual is careful and keeps his wits about him, he need not becomeexcited or alarmed. If he is watchful at all times, even before danger ispresent, he is armed when danger approaches and need not be afraid. Thesuperior man is on his guard against what is not yet in sight and on the alertfor what is not yet within hearing; therefore he dwells in the midst ofdifficulties as though they did not exist.... If reason triumphs, the passionswithdraw of themselves. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.THE GREAT CAMPAIGNGrowing up at the Macedonian court, Alexander (356-322 B.C.) was considereda rather strange young man. He enjoyed the usual boyish pursuits, such as horsesand warfare; having fought alongside his father, King Philip II, in several battles,he had proved his bravery. But he also loved philosophy and literature. His tutorwas the great thinker Aristotle, under whose influence he loved to argue about politics and science, looking at the world as dispassionately as possible. Thenthere was his mother, Olympias: a mystical, superstitious woman, she had hadvisions at Alexander's birth that he would one day rule the known world. Shetold him about them and filled him with stories of Achilles, from whom herfamily claimed descent. Alexander adored his mother (while hating his father)and took her prophecies most seriously. From early on in life, he carried himselfas if he were more than the son of a king.Alexander was raised to be Philip's successor, and the state he was to inherithad grown considerably during his father's reign. Over the years the king hadmanaged to build up the Macedonian army into the supreme force in all Greece.He had defeated Thebes and Athens and had united all the Greek city-states(except Sparta) into a Hellenic league under his leadership. He was a crafty,intimidating ruler. Then, in 336 B.C., a disgruntled nobleman assassinated him.Suddenly seeing Macedonia as vulnerable, Athens declared its independencefrom the league. The other city-states followed suit. Tribes from the north nowthreatened to invade. Almost overnight Philip's small empire was unraveling.When Alexander came to the throne, he was only twenty, and manyconsidered him unready. It was a bad time for learning on the job; theMacedonian generals and political leaders would have to take him under theirwing. They advised him to go slowly, to consolidate his position in both thearmy and Macedonia and then gradually reform the league through force andguile. That was what Philip would have done. But Alexander would not listen;he had another plan, or so it seemed. Without giving his enemies in and beyondMacedonia time to organize against him, he led the army south and reconqueredThebes in a