faced in the fall of 1805 represented one of the greatestrevolutions in military history. For thousands of years, war had been fought inessentially the same way: the commander led his large and unified army intobattle against an opponent of roughly equal size. He would never break up hisarmy into smaller units, for that would violate the military principle of keeping one's forces concentrated; furthermore, scattering his forces would make themharder to monitor, and he would lose control over the battle.Suddenly Napoleon changed all that. In the years of peace between 1800 and1805, he reorganized the French military, bringing different forces together toform the Grande Armee, 210,000 men strong. He divided this army into severalcorps, each with its own cavalry, infantry, artillery, and general staff. Each wasled by a marshal general, usually a young officer of proven strength in previouscampaigns. Varying in size from 15,000 to 30,000 men, each corps was aminiature army headed by a miniature Napoleon.Patton's philosophy of command was: "Never tell people how to do things.Tell them what to do and they will surprise you with their ingenuity."PATTON: A GENIUS FOR WAR, CARLO D'ESTE, 1995The key to the system was the speed with which the corps could move.Napoleon would give the marshals their mission, then let them accomplish it ontheir own. Little time was wasted with the passing of orders back and forth, andsmaller armies, needing less baggage, could march with greater speed. Instead ofa single army moving in a straight line, Napoleon could disperse and concentratehis corps in limitless patterns, which to the enemy seemed chaotic andunreadable.This was the monster that Napoleon unleashed on Europe in September1805. While a few corps were dispatched to northern Italy as a holding forceagainst Austria's planned invasion there, seven corps moved east into Germanyin a scattered array. A reserve force with much cavalry was sent through theBlack Forest, drawing Mack to the west--and so making it harder for him tounderstand what was happening to the north and easier to entrap. (Napoleonunderstood Mack's simple psychology and how the appearance of disorderwould paralyze him.) Meanwhile, with Stuttgart as a pivot, the seven corpswheeled south to the Danube and cut off Mack's various escape routes. Onecorps marshal, hearing that the northeastern route was weakly held, did not waitfor Napoleon to send orders but simply sped and covered it on his own.Wherever Mack went, he would hit a corps large enough to hold him until therest of the French army could tighten the circle. It was like a pack of coyotesagainst a rabbit.Agamemnon smiled and moved on, Coming next to the two captains Whoshared the name Ajax As they were strapping on their helmets. Behind them acloud of infantry loomed...Agamemnon Was glad to see them, and his words flew out: "Ajax, both of you, Achaean commanders, I would be out of line if Iissued you orders. You push your men to fight hard on your own. By FatherZeus, by Athena and Apollo, If all of my men had your kind of heart, KingPriam's city would