knowledge they have gained, they evolvetheir own process—one that suits their temperament and the field they areworking in. And in these creative evolutions we can detect some basic patternsand lessons for us all. The following stories of nine Masters reveal nine differentstrategic approaches to the same goal. The methods they employ may be applied strategic approaches to the same goal. The methods they employ may be appliedto any field because they are connected to the creative powers of the brain thatwe all possess. Try to absorb each one of them, enriching your own knowledgeof the process of mastery and widening your creative arsenal.1. The Authentic VoiceAs a boy growing up in North Carolina, John Coltrane (1926–67) took up musicas a kind of hobby. He was an anxious young man who needed an outlet for allof his pent-up energy. He started with the alto horn, moved to the clarinet, andfinally settled on the alto saxophone. He played for his school band, and to thosewho heard him play back then he was a completely insignificant member of thegroup.Then in 1943 his family moved to Philadelphia. One evening shortly afterthe move Coltrane happened to catch a performance of the great bebopsaxophonist Charlie Parker, and he was instantly transfixed. (See page 31.) Hehad never heard such playing, had never imagined such possibilities in music.Parker had a way of lilting and singing through his saxophone as if theinstrument had melded with his own voice, and in hearing him play it seemedpossible to feel what he was feeling. From that moment on, John Coltrane was aman possessed. Following in Parker’s footsteps, in his own way, would now behis Life’s Task.Coltrane was not sure how he could reach such heights, but he knew thatParker was an intense student of all types of music and practiced the instrumentharder than anyone. This fit in nicely with Coltrane’s own inclinations—alwaysbeing somewhat of a loner, he loved nothing more than to study and expand hisknowledge. He started taking theory lessons at a local music school. And hebegan to practice night and day, with such assiduity that his reeds would becomered from blood. In the time in between practicing, he went to the public libraryand listened to classical music, hungry to absorb every conceivable harmonicpossibility. He practiced scales like a fiend, driving his family insane. He tookscale-book exercises designed for the piano and used them for the saxophone,going through all of the keys in Western music. He began to get gigs in bands inPhiladelphia, getting his first real break in Dizzy Gillespie’s orchestra. Gillespiemade him change to the tenor sax to get more of the Charlie Parker sound, andwithin a few months Coltrane had mastered the new instrument—throughendless hours of practice.Over the next five years Coltrane would bounce around from one band toanother, each with its different style and repertoire of songs. This wanderingexistence suited him well—he felt as if he needed to internalize every conceivable style of music. But this also caused him some problems. When itcame time for him to