were meager; he could only hint at these possibilities throughdeception. But that was enough: a man like Hitler could not bear the thought ofbeing vulnerable from any direction. By 1942 his forces were stretched acrossvast parts of Europe, and Churchill's ploys made him stretch them even thinner.At one point a mere feint at the Balkans made him hold back forces from theinvasion of Russia, which in the end cost him dearly. Feed the fears of theparanoid and they will start to imagine attacks you hadn't even thought of; theiroverheated brains will do much of the encirclement for you.When the Carthaginian general Hannibal was planning what turned out to beperhaps the most devastating envelopment in history--his victory at the Battle ofCannae in 216 B.C.--he heard from his spies that one of the opposing Romangenerals, Varro, was a hothead, arrogant and contemptuous. Hannibal wasoutnumbered two to one, but he made two strategic decisions that turned thisaround. First, he lured the Romans onto tight terrain, where their greaternumbers would find it hard to maneuver. Second, he weakened the center of hislines, placing his best troops and cavalry at the lines' outer ends. Led by the rashVarro, the Romans charged into the center, which gave way. The Romans pushedfarther and farther. Then, just as the Zulus would encircle the British within twohorns, the outer ends of the Carthaginian line pushed inward, enclosing theRomans in a tight and fatal embrace.The impetuous, violent, and arrogant are particularly easy to lure into thetraps of envelopment strategies: play weak or dumb and they will charge aheadwithout stopping to think where they're going. But any emotional weakness onthe opponent's part, or any great desire or unrealized wish, can be made aningredient of encirclement.That is how the Iranians enveloped the administration of President RonaldReagan in 1985-86, in what became known as the Iran-Contra Affair. Americawas leading an international embargo on the sale of weapons to Iran. In fightingthis boycott, the Iranians saw two American weaknesses: first, Congress had cutoff U.S. funding for the war of the Contras against the Sandinista government in Nicaragua--a cause dear to the Reagan government--and second, theadministration was deeply disturbed about the growing number of Americansheld hostage in the Middle East. Playing on these desires, the Iranians were ableto lure the Americans into a Cannae-like trap: they would work for the release ofhostages and secretly fund the Contras, in exchange for weapons.It seemed too good to resist, but as the Americans entered further into thisweb of duplicity (backroom deals, secret meetings), they could sense their roomto maneuver slowly narrowing: the Iranians were able to ask for more inexchange for less. In the end they got plenty of weapons, while the Americansgot only a handful of hostages and not enough money to make a difference inNicaragua. Worse, the Iranians openly told other diplomats about these "secret"dealings, closing their encirclement by ensuring that it would be revealed to theAmerican public. For the government officials who had been involved in theaffair, there was no possible escape route from the