more than your enemy does. Your strategies will become insidious andimpossible to thwart. You will be able to harness the relationships betweenevents, one battle setting up the next, a cultural coup setting up a political coup.You will bring the war to arenas your enemies have ignored, catching them bysurprise. Only grand strategy can yield grand results.War is the continuation of politics by other means.--Carl von Clausewitz (1780-1831)KEYS TO WARFAREThousands of years ago, we humans elevated ourselves above the animal worldand never looked back. Figuratively speaking, the key to this evolutionaryadvance was our powers of vision: language, and the ability to reason that itgave us, let us see more of the world around us. To protect itself from a predator,an animal depended on its senses and instincts; it could not see around the corneror to the other end of the forest. We humans, on the other hand, could map theentire forest, study the habits of dangerous animals and even nature itself,gaining deeper, wider knowledge of our environment. We could see dangerscoming before they were here. This expanded vision was abstract: where ananimal is locked in the present, we could see into the past and glimpse as far asour reason would take us into the future. Our sight expanded further and furtherinto time and space, and we came to dominate the world.Somewhere along the line, however, we stopped evolving as rationalcreatures. Despite our progress there is always a part of us that remains animal,and that animal part can respond only to what is most immediate in our environment--it is incapable of thinking beyond the moment. The dilemmaaffects us still: the two sides of our character, rational and animal, are constantlyat war, making almost all of our actions awkward. We reason and plan to achievea goal, but in the heat of action we become emotional and lose perspective. Weuse cleverness and strategy to grab for what we want, but we do not stop to thinkabout whether what we want is necessary, or what the consequences of getting itwill be. The extended vision that rationality brings us is often eclipsed by thereactive, emotional animal within--the stronger side of our nature.More than we are today, the ancient Greeks were close to the passage of thehuman race from animal to rational. To them our dual nature made us tragic, andthe source of tragedy was limited vision. In classical Greek tragedies such asOedipus Rex, the protagonist may think he knows the truth and knows enoughabout the world to act in it, but his vision is limited by his emotions and desires.He has only a partial perspective on life and on his own actions and identity, sohe acts imprudently and causes suffering. When Oedipus finally understands hisown role in all his misfortunes, he tears out his eyes--symbols of his tragiclimitation. He can see out into the world but not inward into himself.Then he saw Odysseus and asked: "Now tell me about this one, dear child,Shorter than Agamemnon by a head But broader in the shoulders and chest.His armor