instance, Machiavelli would look at the alliances he had built and the wealth and territory he hadacquired, not at his character or religious proclamations. Deeds and results donot lie. You must learn to apply the same barometer to your attempts atcommunication, and to those of other people.If a man says or writes something that he considers revolutionary and that hehopes will change the world and improve mankind, but in the end hardly anyoneis affected in any real way, then it is not revolutionary or progressive at all.Communication that does not advance its cause or produce a desired result is justself-indulgent talk, reflecting no more than people's love of their own voice andof playing the role of the moral crusader. The effective truth of what they havewritten or said is that nothing has been changed. The ability to reach people andalter their opinions is a serious affair, as serious and strategic as war. You mustbe harsher on yourself and on others: failure to communicate is the fault not ofthe dull-witted audience but of the unstrategic communicator. Authority: I cannot give birth to wisdom myself and the accusation thatmany make against me, that while I question others, I myself bringnothing wise to light due to my lack of wisdom, is accurate. The reasonfor this is as follows: God forces me to serve as a midwife and preventsme from giving birth.--Socrates (470-399 B.C.)REVERSALEven as you plan your communications to make them more consciouslystrategic, you must develop the reverse ability to decode the subtexts, hiddenmessages, and unconscious signals in what other people say. When people speakin vague generalities, for example, and use a lot of abstract terms like "justice,""morality," "liberty," and so on, without really ever explaining the specifics ofwhat they are talking about, they are almost always hiding something. This isoften their own nasty but necessary actions, which they prefer to cover up undera screen of righteous verbiage. When you hear such talk, be suspicious.Meanwhile people who use cutesy, colloquial language, brimming with cliches and slang, may be trying to distract you from the thinness of their ideas,trying to win you over not by the soundness of their arguments but by makingyou feel chummy and warm toward them. And people who use pretentious,flowery language, crammed with clever metaphors, are often more interested inthe sound of their own voices than in reaching the audience with a genuinethought. In general, you must pay attention to the forms in which people expressthemselves; never take their content at face value. DESTROY FROM WITHINTHE INNER-FRONT STRATEGYA war can only really be fought against an enemy who shows himself. Byinfiltrating your opponents' ranks, working from within to bring them down, yougive them nothing to see or react against--the ultimate advantage. From within,you also learn their weaknesses and open up possibilities of sowing internaldissension. So hide your hostile intentions. To take something you want, do notfight those who have it, but rather join them--then either slowly make it yourown or wait for the moment to stage a coup d'etat. No