level of self-obsessiveness.) You must look at theworld through their eyes, getting a sense of their needs. You must give themsomething valuable in exchange for helping you—a return favor that will savethem time, a contact they need, and so on. Sometimes the chance to look good indoing you a favor or supporting a cause will suffice, but it is generally better tofind something stronger than that—some concrete benefit they can foreseecoming from you in the future. In general, in your interactions with people, finda way to make the conversations revolve around them and their interests, all ofwhich will go far to winning them to your side.Laziness: We all have the tendency to want to take the quickest, easiest pathto our goals, but we generally manage to control our impatience; we understandthe superior value of getting what we want through hard work. For some people,however, this inveterate lazy streak is far too powerful. Discouraged by thethought that it might take months or years to get somewhere, they are constantlyon the lookout for shortcuts. Their laziness will assume many insidious forms.For example, if you are not careful and talk too much, they will steal your bestideas and make them their own, saving themselves all of the mental effort thatwent into conceiving them. They will swoop in during the middle of your projectand put their name on it, gaining partial credit for your work. They will engageyou in a “collaboration” in which you do the bulk of the hard work but theyshare equally in the rewards.Your best defense is your prudence. Keep your ideas to yourself, or concealenough of the details so that it is not possible to steal them. If you are doingwork for a superior, be prepared for them to take full credit and leave your nameout (this is a part of everyone’s apprenticeship and must be accepted as such), out (this is a part of everyone’s apprenticeship and must be accepted as such),but do not let this happen with colleagues. Secure your credit in advance as partof the terms of working together. If people want you to do work for them, thenpass it off as a “collaborative” effort, always gauge whether such work will addto your skill base, and examine their past record to measure the intensity of theirwork ethic. In general, be wary of people who want to collaborate—they areoften trying to find someone who will do the heavier lifting for them.Flightiness: We like to make a show of how much our decisions are basedon rational considerations, but the truth is that we are largely governed by ouremotions, which continually color our perceptions. What this means is that thepeople around you, constantly under the pull of their emotions, change theirideas by the day or by the hour, depending on their mood. You must neverassume that what people say or do in a particular moment is a statement of theirpermanent desires. Yesterday they were in love with your idea; today they seemlukewarm. This will confuse you and if you are