a sword. There is also the spirit of holding the long sword but not winning. The various methods cannot be expressed in writing. You must train well. The Body of a Rock 51 When you have mastered the Way of strategy you can suddenly make your body like a rock, and ten thousand things cannot touch you. This is the body of a rock. You will not be moved. Oral tradition. What is recorded above is what has been constantly on my mind about Ichi school sword fencing, written down as it came to me. This is the first time I have written about my 51The body of the rock : This is recorded in the Terao Ka Ki , the chronicle of the house of Terao. Once, a lord asked Musashi “What is this ‘Body of a rock’?” Musashi replied, “Please summon my pupil Terao Ryuma Suke”. When Terao appeared, Musashi ordered him to kill himself by cutting his abdomen. Just as Terao was about to make the cut, Musashi restrained him and said to the lord, “This is the ‘Body of the Rock’”. technique, and the order of things is a bit confused. It is difficult to express it clearly. This book is a spiritual guide for the man who wishes to learn the Way. My heart has been inclined to the Way of strategy from my youth onwards. I have devoted myself to training my hand, tempering my body, and attaining the many spiritual attitudes of sword fencing. If we watch men of other schools discussing theory, and concentrating on techniques with the hands, even though they seem skilful to watch, they have not the slightest true spirit. Of course, men who study in this way think they are training the body and spirit, but it is an obstacle to the true Way, and its bad influence remains for ever. Thus the true Way of strategy is becoming decadent and dying out. The true Way of sword fencing is the craft of defeating the enemy in a fight, and nothing other than this. If you attain and adhere to the wisdom of my strategy, you need never doubt that you will win. The second year of Shoho, the fifth month, the twelfth day (1645) Teruo Magonojo SHINMEN MUSASHI THE WIND BOOK ~ In strategy you must know the Ways of other schools, so I have written about various other traditions of strategy in this the Wind Book. Without knowledge of the Ways of other schools, it is difficult to understand the essence of my Ichi school. Looking at other schools we find some that specialise in techniques of strength using extra-long swords. Some schools study the Way of the short sword, known as kodachi . Some schools teach dexterity in large numbers of sword techniques, teaching attitudes of the sword as the "surface" and the Way as the "interior". That none of these are the true Way I show clearly in the interior of this book—all the