be doomed; and if Richmond fell, the South would have to surrender.The Confederate general Stonewall Jackson was based in Virginia'sShenandoah Valley at the head of 3,600 men, a ragtag group of rebels he hadrecruited and trained. His job was merely to defend the fertile valley against aUnion army in the area, but as he pondered the developing campaign againstRichmond, he saw the possibility of something much greater. Jackson had been aclassmate of McClellan's at West Point and knew that underneath his brash,talkative exterior he was basically timid, overly anxious about his career andmaking any mistakes. McClellan had 90,000 men ready for the march onRichmond, almost double the available Confederate forces, but Jackson knewthat this cautious man would wait to fight until his army was overwhelming; hewanted the extra troops that Lincoln had promised him. Lincoln, however, wouldnot release those forces if he saw danger elsewhere. The Shenandoah Valley wasto the southwest of Washington. If Jackson could possibly create enoughconfusion as to what was happening there, he could disrupt the Union plans andperhaps save the South from disaster.On March 22, Jackson's spies reported that two-thirds of the Union armystationed in the Shenandoah Valley, under General Nathaniel Banks, washeading east to join McClellan. Soon an army near Washington, led by GeneralIrvin McDowell, would move toward Richmond as well. Jackson wasted notime: he marched his men fast to the north to attack the Union soldiers still in thevalley, near Kernstown. The battle was fierce, and at the end of the day Jackson'ssoldiers were forced to retreat. To them the engagement seemed to have been adefeat, even a disaster: outnumbered nearly two to one, they had suffered terriblecasualties. But Jackson, always a hard man to figure out, seemed oddly satisfied.One classic response to a particularly vicious beanball was exemplified by aplay Jackie Robinson made in the summer of 1953. Sal Maglie of the NewYork Giants was "Sal the Barber," mostly because his high inside fast balls"shaved" hitters' chins. Maglie was candid and friendly when he wasn't pitching. "You have to make the batter afraid of the ball or, anyway, awarethat he can get hurt," Maglie told me matter-of-factly one afternoon overdrinks at his apartment in Riverdale. "A lot of pitchers think they do that bythrowing at a hitter when the count is two strikes and no balls. The troublethere is that the knockdown is expected. You don't scare a guy by knockinghim down when he knows he's going to be knocked down." "Then when, Sal?"I asked. "A good time is when the count is two and two. He's looking to swing.You knock him down then and he gets up shaking. Now curve him and youhave your out. Of course, to do that you have to be able to get your curveover the plate on a three-and-two count. Not every pitcher can." Maglie couldbreak three different curves over the plate, three and two. He had particularsuccess against such free-swinging sluggers as Roy Campanella and GilHodges. But it is simplistic to say Maglie intimidated Campanella andHodges.