suit her wisecracking style, she insistedon altering the blocking and camera setups to make the most of her lines. Theyfought and fought, until one day West refused to go on. She had demanded a shotof her disappearing up some stairs after delivering one of her patentedwisecracks. This would give the audience time to laugh. Mayo thought itunnecessary and refused to shoot it. West walked off the set, and productioncame to a halt. Studio executives agreed that West's lines had lightened up thepicture; let her have her way with the direction and shoot the shot, they toldMayo. They would edit it out later.Production resumed. The other actress in her scenes, Alison Skipworth, hadthe distinct impression that West was determining the pace of the lines, gettingthe camera to focus on her, stealing the scene. Protesting that West was takingover the direction of the movie, Skipworth, too, was told not to worry--it wouldall be fixed in the editing.When it came time to cut the film, however, West had so altered the moodand pace of her scenes that no editing could bring them back to the original;more important, her sense of timing and direction were solid. She had indeedimproved the entire picture.The film debuted in October 1932. The reviews were mixed, but almost allagreed that a new star was born. West's aggressive sexual style and witfascinated the men in the audience. Though she appeared in just a few scenes,she was the only part of the film anyone seemed to remember. Lines she hadwritten--"I'm a girl who lost her reputation and never missed it"--were quotedendlessly. As Raft later admitted, "Mae West stole everything but the cameras."Audiences were soon clamoring for more Mae West--and Paramount, infinancial trouble at the time, could not ignore them. At the age of forty, as plump as ever, West was signed to a long-term contract at the highest salary of any starin the studio. For her next film, Diamond Lil, she would have complete creativecontrol. No other actress--or actor, for that matter--had ever pulled off such acoup and in so short a time.Hideous groans rose from the wounded, And the river water turned crimsonwith blood.Fish fleeing a dolphin's huge maw Hide by the hundreds in the harbor'scrannies, But the dolphin devours whatever it catches.Likewise the Trojans beneath the riverbanks. THE ILIAD, HOMER, CIRCA NINTH CENTURY B.C.InterpretationWhen Mae West set foot in Hollywood, everything was stacked against her. Shewas old and passe. The director and an army of studio executives had just onegoal: to use her in a scene or two to animate a dull picture, then ship her back toNew York. She had no real power, and if she had chosen to fight on theirbattlefield--one in which actresses were a dime a dozen and exploited to thefullest--she would have gotten nowhere. West's genius, her form of warfare, wasslowly but surely to shift the battlefield to terrain of her choice.She began her war by playing the part of the blond bombshell, charming andseducing the Paramount men. Her screen test hooked them--she was