a hospital,being treated for exhaustion and appendicitis. But, in one of the great upsets inAmerican political history, he had won.By staking his future on one throw, Johnson put himself in a death-groundsituation. His body and spirit responded with the energy he needed. Often we trytoo many things at one time, thinking that one of them will bring us success--butin these situations our minds are diffused, our efforts halfhearted. It is better totake on one daunting challenge, even one that others think foolish. Our future isat stake; we cannot afford to lose. So we don't. Act before you are ready. In 49 B.C. a group of Roman senators, allied withPompey and fearing the growing power of Julius Caesar, ordered the greatgeneral to disband his army or be considered a traitor to the Republic. WhenCaesar received this decree, he was in southern Gaul (modern-day France) withonly five thousand men; the rest of his legions were far to the north, where hehad been campaigning. He had no intention of obeying the decree--that wouldhave been suicide--but it would be weeks before the bulk of his army could joinhim. Unwilling to wait, Caesar told his captains, "Let the die be cast," and he andhis five thousand men crossed the Rubicon, the river marking the borderbetween Gaul and Italy. Leading troops onto Italian soil meant war with Rome.Now there was no turning back; it was fight or die. Caesar was compelled toconcentrate his forces, to not waste a single man, to act with speed, and to be ascreative as possible. He marched on Rome. By seizing the initiative, hefrightened the senators, forcing Pompey to flee.Death is nothing, but to live defeated is to die every day.NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, 1769-1821When danger is greatest.--It is rare to break one's leg when in the course of life one is toiling upwards--it happens much more often when one starts totake things easy and to choose the easy paths.FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1844-1900We often wait too long to act, particularly when we face no outside pressure.It is sometimes better to act before you think you are ready--to force the issueand cross the Rubicon. Not only will you take your opponents by surprise, youwill also have to make the most of your resources. You have committed yourselfand cannot turn back. Under pressure your creativity will flourish. Do this oftenand you will develop your ability to think and act fast. Enter new waters. The Hollywood studio MGM had been good to JoanCrawford: it had discovered her, made her a star, crafted her image. By the early1940s, though, Crawford had had enough. It was all too comfortable; MGM keptcasting her in the same kinds of roles, none of them a challenge. So, in 1943,Crawford did the unthinkable and asked out of her contract.Be absolute for death; either death or life Shall thereby be the sweeter.Reason thus with life: If I do lose thee, I do lose a thing That none but foolswould keep: a breath thou art, Servile to all the skyey influences, That dostthis habituation, where