and even panicthroughout the group. As fast as you can, you must isolate them and get rid ofthem. All groups contain a core of people who are more motivated anddisciplined than the rest--your best soldiers. Recognize them, cultivate theirgoodwill, and set them up as examples. These people will serve as naturalballasts against those who are disaffected and panicky.You know, I am sure, that not numbers or strength brings victory in war; butwhichever army goes into battle stronger in soul, their enemies generallycannot withstand them.--Xenophon (430?-355? B.C.)HISTORICAL EXAMPLES1. In the early 1630s, Oliver Cromwell (1599-1658), a provincial gentlemanfarmer in Cambridgeshire, England, fell victim to a depression and to constantthoughts of death. Deep in crisis, he converted to the Puritan religion, andsuddenly his life took a new turn: he felt he had experienced a direct communionwith God. Now he believed in providence, the idea that everything happens for areason and according to God's will. Whereas before he had been despondent andindecisive, now he was filled with purpose: he thought himself among God'select.Eventually Cromwell became a member of Parliament and a vocal defenderof the common people in their grievances against the aristocracy. Yet he feltmarked by providence for something larger than politics: he had visions of agreat crusade. In 1642, Parliament, in a bitter struggle with Charles I, voted tocut off the king's funds until he agreed to limits on royal power. When Charlesrefused, civil war broke out between the Cavaliers (supporters of the king, whowore their hair long) and the Roundheads (the rebels, so called since theycropped their hair short). Parliament's most fervent supporters were Puritans likeCromwell, who saw the war against the king as his chance--more than hischance, his calling.Although Cromwell had no military background, he hurriedly formed atroop of sixty horsemen from his native Cambridgeshire. His aim was toincorporate them in a larger regiment, gain military experience by fighting under another commander, and slowly prove his worth. He was confident of ultimatevictory, for he saw his side as unbeatable: after all, God was on their side, and allhis men were believers in the cause of creating a more pious England.Despite his lack of experience, Cromwell was something of a militaryvisionary: he imagined a new kind of warfare spearheaded by a faster, moremobile cavalry, and in the war's first few months he proved a brave and effectiveleader. He was given more troops to command but soon realized that he hadgrossly overestimated the fighting spirit of those on his side: time and again heled cavalry charges that pierced enemy lines, only to watch in disgust as hissoldiers broke order to plunder the enemy camp. Sometimes he tried to hold partof his force in reserve to act as reinforcements later in the battle, but the onlycommand they listened to was to advance, and in retreat they were hopelesslydisordered. Representing themselves as crusaders, Cromwell's men wererevealed by battle as mercenaries, fighting for pay and adventure. They wereuseless.In 1643, when Cromwell was made a colonel at the head of his ownregiment, he decided to break