wary of people who speak well, haveapparently charming personalities, and talk about friendship, loyalty, andselflessness: they are most often con artists trying to prey on your emotions.Keep your eye on the interests involved on both sides, and never let yourself bedistracted from them. GIVE YOUR RIVALS ENOUGH ROPE TO HANGTHEMSELVESTHE ONE-UPMANSHIP STRATEGYLife's greatest dangers often come not from external enemies but from oursupposed colleagues and friends, who pretend to work for the common causewhile scheming to sabotage us and steal our ideas for their gain. Although, inthe court in which you serve, you must maintain the appearance of considerationand civility, you also must learn to defeat these people. Work to instill doubtsand insecurities in such rivals, getting them to think too much and actdefensively. Bait them with subtle challenges that get under their skin, triggeringan overreaction, an embarrassing mistake. The victory you are after is to isolatethem. Make them hang themselves through their own self-destructive tendencies,leaving you blameless and clean.THE ART OF ONE-UPMANSHIPThroughout your life you will find yourself fighting on two fronts. First is theexternal front, your inevitable enemies--but second and less obvious is theinternal front, your colleagues and fellow courtiers, many of whom will schemeagainst you, advancing their own agendas at your expense. The worst of it is thatyou will often have to fight on both fronts at once, facing your external enemieswhile also working to secure your internal position, an exhausting anddebilitating struggle.Life is war against the malice of men.BALTASAR GRACIAN, 1601-58The solution is not to ignore the internal problem (you will have a short lifeif you do so) or to deal with it in a direct and conventional manner, bycomplaining, acting aggressively, or forming defensive alliances. Understand:internal warfare is by nature unconventional. Since people theoretically on thesame side usually do their best to maintain the appearance of being team playersworking for the greater good, complaining about them or attacking them will only make you look bad and isolate you. Yet at the same time, you can expectthese ambitious types to operate underhandedly and indirectly. Outwardlycharming and cooperative, behind the scenes they are manipulative and slippery.You need to adopt a form of warfare suited to these nebulous yet dangerousbattles, which go on every day. And the unconventional strategy that works bestin this arena is the art of one-upmanship. Developed by history's savviestcourtiers, it is based on two simple premises: first, your rivals harbor the seeds oftheir own self-destruction, and second, a rival who is made to feel defensive andinferior, however subtly, will tend to act defensive and inferior, to his or herdetriment.People's personalities often form around weaknesses, character flaws,uncontrollable emotions. People who feel needy, or who have a superioritycomplex, or are afraid of chaos, or desperately want order, will develop apersonality--a social mask--to cover up their flaws and make it possible for themto present a confident, pleasant, responsible exterior to the world. But the maskis like the scar tissue covering a wound: touch it the wrong way and it hurts.Your victims' responses start to go out of