aggression as a conscious, positive strategy is thefront you present to your enemies. They must never be able to detect the sullen,defiant thoughts that are going on inside of you.In 1802 what today is Haiti was a French possession riven by a revolt of thecountry's black slaves under the leadership of Toussaint-L'ouverture. That yearan army sent by Napoleon to crush the rebellion managed to seize Toussaintthrough treachery and ship him off to France, where he would eventually die inprison. Among Toussaint's most-decorated generals was a man named Jean- Jacques Dessalines, who now surrendered to the French and even served in theirarmy, helping them to put down isolated pockets of revolt and winning fromthem much appreciation. But it was all a ploy: as Dessalines squashed theseremnants of the rebellion, he would hand over the weapons he captured to theFrench, but secretly he always kept some of them back, stashing them away untilhe had quite a large armory. Meanwhile he built up and trained a new rebel armyin the remote areas where his assignment led him. Then, choosing a momentwhen an outbreak of yellow fever had decimated the French army, he resumedhostilities. Within a few years, he had defeated the French and liberated Haiti forgood from colonial control.Dessalines's use of passive aggression has deep roots in military strategy, inwhat can be called the "false surrender." In war your enemies can never readyour thoughts. They must make your appearance their guide, reading the signsyou give off to decipher what you are thinking and planning. Meanwhile thesurrender of an army tends to be followed by a great flood of emotion and alowering of everyone's guard. The victor will keep an eye on the beaten troopsbut, exhausted by the effort it took to win, will be hugely tempted to be less warythan before. A clever strategist, then, may falsely surrender--announce that he isdefeated in body and spirit. Seeing no indication otherwise, and unable to readhis mind, the enemy is likely to take his submission at face value. Now the falsesurrenderer has time and space to plot new hostilities.In war as in life, the false surrender depends on the seamless appearance ofsubmission. Dessalines did not just give in, he actively served his formerenemies. To make this work, you must do likewise: play up your weakness, yourcrushed spirit, your desire to be friends--an emotional ploy with great power todistract. You must also be something of an actor. Any sign of ambivalence willruin the effect.In 1940, President Franklin D. Roosevelt faced a dilemma. He was nearingthe end of his second term in office, and it was an unwritten tradition inAmerican politics that no president would run for a third term. But Roosevelthad much unfinished business. Abroad, Europe was deep in a war that wouldalmost certainly end up involving the United States; at home, the country hadbeen going through difficult times, and Roosevelt wanted to bring his programsto remedy them to completion. If he revealed his desire for a third term, though,he would stir up opposition even within his