it finallybecame clear that they were dragging out the talks to buy time to build up theirarmy--and to let winter grow closer.Napoleon could not risk staying in Moscow another day; the Russians wouldsoon be able to encircle his now meager force. On October 19 he marched theremains of his army out of the Russian capital. His goal was to get to Smolenskas fast as possible. Now those undisciplined bands of Cossacks that had harassedhim on the road east had formed into larger divisions--guerrilla forces of 500men--and every day they killed off more and more French soldiers. Marching inconstant fear, Napoleon's men rarely slept. Thousands succumbed to fatigue andhunger. Napoleon was forced to lead them past the nightmarish fields ofBorodino, still crowded with French corpses, many half eaten by wolves. Thesnow began to fall--the Russian winter set in. The French horses died from thecold, and every last soldier had to trudge through the snow on foot. Barely40,000 made it to Smolensk.The cold was worsening. There was no time to tarry in Smolensk. Throughsome deft maneuvering, Napoleon managed to get his troops across the BerezinaRiver, allowing them a clear line of retreat to the west. Then, in early December, hearing of a failed coup d'etat at home in France, he left his troops behind andheaded for Paris. Of the 450,000 men in his main attack force, some 25,000made it back. Few among the rest of the army survived as well. Napoleon hadmiraculously escaped to fight more wars, but he would never recoup his losses inmanpower and horses. Russia was indeed his grave.InterpretationBy the time Napoleon invaded Russia, Czar Alexander I had met him a numberof times in previous years and had come to know him quite well. The emperor,Alexander saw, was an aggressive man who loved any kind of fight, even if theodds were stacked against him. He needed battles as a chance to put his genius inplay. By refusing to meet him in battle, Alexander could frustrate him and lurehim into a void: vast but empty lands without food or forage, empty cities withnothing to plunder, empty negotiations, empty time in which nothing happened,and finally the dead of winter. Russia's harsh climate would make a shambles ofNapoleon's organizational genius. And as it played out, Alexander's strategyworked to perfection. Napoleon's inability to engage his enemy got under hisskin: a few more miles east, one solid battle, and he could teach this cowardlyfoe a lesson. His emotions--irritation, anger, confusion--overwhelmed his abilityto strategize. How could he have come to believe, for instance, that the fall ofMoscow would force the czar to surrender? Alexander's army was still intact, theFrench had grown frighteningly weak, and winter was coming. Napoleon's mindhad succumbed to the powerful pull of the void that he had entered, and that ledhim far astray.Alexander's strategy wreaked havoc on the French soldiers as well, whowere renowned for their superior discipline and fighting spirit. A soldier canendure almost anything except the expectation of a battle that never comes and atension that is never relieved. Instead