Richmond, and Banks prepared to joinhim. Again Jackson was ready: he marched his army in a completely bizarrefashion, first to the east, toward McDowell, then back west into the Valley. Noteven his own soldiers knew what he was doing. Mystified by these strangemaneuvers, Lincoln imagined--but wasn't sure--that Jackson was marching tofight McDowell. Once again he halted McDowell's march south, kept half ofBanks's army in the valley, and sent the other half to help McDowell defendhimself against Jackson.Suddenly the Union's plans, which had seemed so perfect, were in disarray,its troops too scattered to support each other. Now Jackson went in for the kill:he linked up with other Confederate divisions in the area and, on May 24,marched on the Union army--now divided and dangerously diminished--thatremained in the valley. Jackson maneuvered onto its flank and sent it in headlongretreat north to the Potomac River. His pursuit of this army sent a wave of panicthrough Washington: this now dreaded general, commanding forces that seemedto have doubled in size overnight, was heading straight for the capital.Secretary of War Edwin Stanton telegraphed Northern governors to alertthem to the threat and to muster troops for the city's defense. Reinforcementsquickly arrived to halt the Confederate advance. Meanwhile Lincoln, determinedto eliminate Jackson once and for all, ordered half of McDowell's army west to join in the fight to destroy this pest and the other half to return to Washington tosecure the capital. McClellan could only agree.Once again Jackson retreated, but by now his plan had worked to perfection.In three months, with only 3,600 men, he had diverted well over 60,000Northern troops, bought the South enough time to coordinate the defense ofRichmond, and completely altered the course of the war.InterpretationThe story of Stonewall Jackson in the Shenandoah Valley illustrates a simpletruth: what matters in war, as in life generally, is not necessarily how many menyou have or how well supplied you are but how your enemies see you. If theythink you are weak and vulnerable, they act aggressively, which in and of itselfcan put you in trouble. If they suddenly think you are strong, or unpredictable, orhave hidden resources, they back off and reassess. Getting them to change theirplans and treat you more carefully can by itself alter the war. In any struggle,some things will be outside your control; you may not be able to put together alarge army or defend all your weak points, but you can always affect people'sperceptions of you.Jackson altered Union perceptions first by his bold attack on Kernstown,which made Lincoln and McClellan think he had more troops than he did--theycould not imagine that anyone would be so stupid as to send only 3,600 menagainst a Union stronghold. If Jackson was stronger than they had imagined, thatmeant they needed more men in the Shenandoah Valley, which cut into thetroops available for the march on Richmond. Next Jackson began behavingunpredictably, creating the impression of having not only a large army but alsosome strange and worrying plan. Lincoln's and McClellan's inability to figureout this plan stopped them in