them, so that either waythe elusive one controls the dynamic. Some people take this further, attacking usin ways that are evasive and unpredictable. These opponents can gain adisturbing power over our minds, and the longer they keep it up, the more we aresucked into fighting on their terms. With advances in technology that make iteasier to maintain a vaporous presence, and the use of the media as both a screenand a kind of guerrilla adjunct, the power and effectiveness of this warfare inpolitical or social battle are greatly enhanced. In heated political times, aguerrilla-style campaign--allied with some cause--can be used to wage a people'swar against large entities, corporations, entrenched powers. In this kind of publiccombat, everyone loves to fight on the guerrillas' side because the participantsare more deeply involved in the struggle, not mere cogs in a giant machine.Franklin Roosevelt was a kind of political guerrilla warrior. He liked to fightevasively and strategized to deny the Republicans any targets to hit. He used themedia to make himself seem to be everywhere and to be waging a kind ofpeople's war against moneyed interests. In classic guerrilla manner, he alsoreorganized the Democratic Party to make it less centralized, more mobile andfluid for local battles. For Roosevelt, though, the guerrilla approach was not somuch a coherent strategy as a style. As many do, he unconsciously sensed thepower in being evasive and fought that way to great effect--but to make thisstrategy really work, it is better to use it consciously and rationally. Guerrillastrategy may be the reverse side of war, but it has its own logic, backward yetrigorous. You cannot just improvise it anarchically; you must think and plan in anew way--mobile, dimensional, and abstract.The primary consideration should always be whether a guerrilla-stylecampaign is appropriate for the circumstances you are facing. It is especiallyeffective, for instance, against an opponent who is aggressive yet clever--a manlike Napoleon. These types cannot stand lack of contact with an enemy. Theylive to maneuver, outwit, and outhit. Having nothing to strike at neutralizes theircleverness, and their aggression becomes their downfall. It is interesting to notethat this strategy works in love as well as in war and that here, too, Napoleonwas its victim: it was by a guerrilla-style seduction--by enticing him to chase her, giving tantalizing lures but offering him nothing solid to grasp--that EmpressJosephine made him her slave.This strategy of the void works wonders on those who are used toconventional warfare. Lack of contact is so outside their experience that it warpsany strategic powers they have. Large bureaucracies are often perfect targets fora guerrilla strategy for the same reason: they are capable of responding only inthe most orthodox manner. In any event, guerrilla warriors generally need anopponent that is large, slow-footed, and with bullying tendencies.Once you have determined that a guerrilla war is appropriate, take a look atthe army you will use. A large, conventional army is never suitable; fluidity andthe ability to strike from many angles are what counts. The organizational modelis the cell--a relatively small group of