schooling. He tried his best. He developed an interest inbotany and became good friends with his instructor, Professor Henslow. Heworked as hard as he could, and to his father’s relief he managed, barely, to earnhis Bachelor of Arts in May 1831.Hoping that his schooling was forever over, Charles left on a tour of theEnglish countryside where he could indulge in all of his passions for theoutdoors and forget about the future, for the time being.When he returned home in late August, he was surprised to see a letterwaiting for him from Professor Henslow. The professor was recommendingCharles for a position as an unpaid naturalist on the HMS Beagle, which was toleave in a few months on a several-year journey around the globe, surveyingvarious coastlines. As part of his job, Charles would be in charge of collecting life and mineral specimens along the way and sending them back to England forexamination. Evidently, Henslow had been impressed by the young man’sremarkable skill in collecting and identifying plant specimens.This offer confused Charles. He had never thought of traveling that far, letalone pursuing a career as a naturalist. Before he really had time to consider it,his father weighed in—he was dead set against his accepting the offer. Charleshad never been to sea and would not take to it well. He was not a trainedscientist, and lacked the discipline. Moreover, taking several years on thisvoyage would jeopardize the position his father had secured for him in thechurch.His father was so forceful and persuasive that Charles could not help butagree, and he decided to turn the offer down. But over the next few days hethought about this voyage and what it could be like. And the more he imaginedit, the more it appealed to him. Perhaps it was the lure of adventure after leadingsuch a sheltered childhood, or the chance to explore a possible career as anaturalist, seeing along the way almost every possible life form the planet couldoffer. Or maybe he needed to get away from his overbearing father and find hisown way. Whatever the reason, he soon decided that he had changed his mindand wanted to accept the offer. Recruiting an uncle to his cause, he managed toget his father to give his very reluctant consent. On the eve of the ship’sdeparture, Charles wrote to the captain of the Beagle, Robert FitzRoy: “Mysecond life will then commence, and it shall be as a birthday for the rest of mylife.”The ship set sail in December of that year and almost instantly young Darwinregretted his decision. The boat was rather small and strongly buffeted by thewaves. He was continually seasick and could not hold his food. His heart achedat the thought that he would not see his family for so long, and that he wouldhave to spend so many years cooped up with all of these strangers. He developedheart palpitations and felt like he was dangerously ill. The sailors sensed his lackof seaworthiness and eyed him strangely. Captain FitzRoy proved to be a man ofwildly swinging