who hasmanaged to connect all branches of knowledge and approximate the intellectualreach of the Creator. reach of the Creator.Perhaps today we are witnessing the early signs of a return to reality, aRenaissance in modern form. In the sciences, the first seeds of this began withFaraday, Maxwell, and Einstein, who focused on the relationships betweenphenomena, fields of force instead of individual particles. In the larger sense,many scientists are now actively seeking to connect their various specializationsto others—for instance, how neuroscience intersects so many other disciplines.We see signs of this also in the growing interest in theories of complexityapplied to such disparate fields as economics, biology, and computers. We cansee it in the broadening of our thinking to ecosystems, as a way to trulyconceptualize the dynamic interactions in nature. We can see it in health andmedicine, in the sane approach many are taking to consider the body as a whole.This trend is the future, because the purpose of consciousness itself has alwaysbeen to connect us to reality.As individuals, we can participate in this trend simply by pursuing mastery.In our apprenticeships, we naturally begin by learning the parts and makingvarious distinctions—the right and wrong way to proceed, the individual skills tomaster and their particular techniques, the various rules and conventions thatgovern the group. In the Creative-Active we begin to melt these distinctions aswe experiment with, shape, and alter these conventions to suit our purposes. Andin mastery we come full circle, returning to a sense of the whole. We intuit andsee the connections. We embrace the natural complexity of life, making the brainexpand to the dimensions of reality instead of shrinking it to the narrowest ofspecializations. This is the inevitable outcome of deep immersion in a field. Wecan define intelligence as moving toward thinking that is more contextual, moresensitive to the relationships between things.Think of it this way: the ultimate distinction you make is between yourselfand the world. There is the inside (your subjective experience) and there is theoutside. But every time you learn something, your brain is altered as newconnections are formed. Your experience of something that occurs in the worldphysically alters your brain. The boundaries between you and the world aremuch more fluid than you might imagine. When you move toward mastery, yourbrain becomes radically altered by the years of practice and activeexperimentation. It is no longer the simple ecosystem of years gone by. Thebrain of a Master is so richly interconnected that it comes to resemble thephysical world, and becomes a vibrant ecosystem in which all forms of thinkingassociate and connect. This growing similarity between the brain and complexlife itself represents the ultimate return to reality. STRATEGIES FOR ATTAINING MASTERYThe intuitive mind is a sacred gift and the rational mind is a faithful servant. We havecreated a society that honors the servant and has forgotten the gift.—ALBERT EINSTEINMastery is not a function of genius or talent. It is a function of time and intensefocus applied to a particular field of knowledge. But there is another element, anX factor that Masters inevitably