not your oﬃce to you. Some do honour to their post, with others 'tis the other way . It is no great gain if a poor successor makes the predecessor seem good, for this does not imply that the one is missed, but that the other is wished away . cxxv Do not be a Black List. It is a sign of having a tarnished name to concern oneself with the ill-fame of others. Some wish to hide their own stains with those of others, or at least wash them away: or they seek consolation therein--'tis the consolation of fools. They must have bad breath who form the sewers of scandal for the whole town. The more one grubs about in such matters, the more one befouls oneself. There are few without stain somewhere or other, but it is of little known people that the failings are little known. Be careful then to avoid being a registrar of faults. That is to be an abominable thing, a man that lives without a heart. cxxvi F olly consists not in committing F olly , but in not hiding it when committed. Y ou should keep your desires sealed up, still more your defects. All go wrong sometimes, but the wise try to hide the errors, but fools boast of them. Reputation depends more on what is hidden than on what is done; if a man does not live chastely , he must live cautiously . The errors of great men are like the eclipses of the greater lights. Even in friendship it is rare to expose one's failings to one's friend. Nay , one should conceal them from oneself if one can. But here one can help with that other great rule of life: learn to forget. cxxvii Grace in Everything. 'Tis the life of talents, the breath of speech, the soul of action, and the ornament of ornament. Perfections are the adornment of our nature, but this is the adornment of perfection itself. It shows itself even in the thoughts. 'Tis most a gift of nature and owes least to education; it even triumphs over training. It is more than ease, approaches the free and easy , gets over embarrassment, and adds the ﬁnishing touch to perfection. Without it beauty is lifeless, graciousness ungraceful: it surpasses valour, discretion, prudence, even majesty it-self. 'Tis a short way to dispatch and an easy escape from embarrassment. cxxviii Highmindedness. One of the principal qualiﬁcations for a gentleman, for it spurs on to all kinds of nobility . It improves the taste, ennobles the heart, elevates the mind, reﬁnes the feelings, and intensiﬁes dignity . It raises him in whom it is found, and at times remedies the bad turns of Fortune, which only raises by striking. It can ﬁnd full scope in the will when it cannot be exercised in act. Magnanimity , generosity , and all heroic qualities recognise in it their source. cxxix Never complain. To complain always brings discredit. Better