bubbling up to thesurface.REVERSALIn Western culture, a particular myth has evolved that drugs or madness cansomehow lead to creative bursts of the highest order. How else to explain thework that John Coltrane did while hooked on heroin, or the great works of theplaywright August Strindberg, who seemed clinically insane? Their work is sospontaneous and free, so far beyond the powers of the rational, conscious mind.This is a cliché, however, that is easily debunked. Coltrane himself admittedthat he did his worst work during the few years he was addicted to heroin. It wasdestroying him and his creative powers. He kicked the habit in 1957 and neverlooked back. Biographers who later examined the letters and journals ofStrindberg discovered a man who was quite histrionic in public, but who inprivate life was extremely disciplined. The effect of madness created in his playsis very consciously crafted.Understand: to create a meaningful work of art or to make a discovery orinvention requires great discipline, self-control, and emotional stability. Itrequires mastering the forms of your field. Drugs and madness only destroy suchpowers. Do not fall for the romantic myths and clichés that abound in cultureabout creativity—offering us the excuse or panacea that such powers can comecheaply. When you look at the exceptionally creative work of Masters, you mustnot ignore the years of practice, the endless routines, the hours of doubt, and thetenacious overcoming of obstacles these people endured. Creative energy is thefruit of such efforts and nothing else.Our vanity, our passions, our spirit of imitation, our abstract intelligence, our habits havelong been at work, and it is the task of art to undo this work of theirs, making us travel backin the direction from which we have come to the depths where what has really existed liesunknown within us.—MARCEL PROUST VIFUSE THE INTUITIVE WITH THE RATIONAL:MASTERYAll of us have access to a higher form of intelligence, one that can allow us to see more ofthe world, to anticipate trends, to respond with speed and accuracy to any circumstance.This intelligence is cultivated by deeply immersing ourselves in a field of study and stayingtrue to our inclinations, no matter how unconventional our approach might seem to others.Through such intense immersion over many years we come to internalize and gain anintuitive feel for the complicated components of our field. When we fuse this intuitive feelwith rational processes, we expand our minds to the outer limits of our potential and areable to see into the secret core of life itself. We then come to have powers that approximatethe instinctive force and speed of animals, but with the added reach that our humanconsciousness brings us. This power is what our brains were designed to attain, and we willbe naturally led to this type of intelligence if we follow our inclinations to their ultimateends. THE THIRD TRANSFORMATIONFor the writer Marcel Proust (1871–1922), his fate seemed set at birth. He wasborn incredibly small and frail; for two weeks he hovered near death, but finallypulled through. As a child, he had frequent bouts of illness