a disaster.All seemed lost, but in June, Churchill convinced the government to sendmore troops and Hamilton devised a new plan. He would land 20,000 men atSuvla Bay, some twenty miles to the north. Suvla was a vulnerable target: it hada large harbor, the terrain was lowlying and easy, and it was defended by only ahandful of Turks. An invasion here would force the Turks to divide their forces,freeing up the Allied armies to the south. The stalemate would be broken, andGallipoli would fall.To command the Suvla operation Hamilton was forced to accept the mostsenior Englishman available for the job, Lieutenant General Sir FrederickStopford. Under him, Major General Frederick Hammersley would lead theEleventh Division. Neither of these men was Hamilton's first choice. Stopford, asixty-one-year-old military teacher, had never led troops in war and saw artillerybombardment as the only way to win a battle; he was also in poor health.Hammersley, for his part, had suffered a nervous breakdown the previous year.In war it is not men, but the man, that counts.NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, 1769-1821Hamilton's style was to tell his officers the purpose of an upcoming battlebut leave it to them how to bring it about. He was a gentleman, never blunt orforceful. At one of their first meetings, for example, Stopford requested changes in the landing plans to reduce risk. Hamilton politely deferred to him.Hamilton did have one request. Once the Turks knew of the landings atSuvla, they would rush in reinforcements. As soon as the Allies were ashore,then, Hamilton wanted them to advance immediately to a range of hills fourmiles inland, called Tekke Tepe, and to get there before the Turks. From TekkeTepe the Allies would dominate the peninsula. The order was simple enough, butHamilton, so as not to offend his subordinate, expressed it in the most generalterms. Most crucially, he specified no time frame. He was sufficiently vague thatStopford completely misinterpreted him: instead of trying to reach Tekke Tepe"as soon as possible," Stopford thought he should advance to the hills "ifpossible." That was the order he gave Hammersley. And as Hammersley,nervous about the whole campaign, passed it down to his colonels, the orderbecame less urgent and vaguer still.Also, despite his deference to Stopford, Hamilton overruled the lieutenantgeneral in one respect: he denied a request for more artillery bombardments toloosen up the Turks. Stopford's troops would outnumber the Turks at Suvla tento one, Hamilton replied; more artillery was superfluous.The attack began in the early morning of August 7. Once again much turnedbad: Stopford's changes in the landing plans made a mess. As his officers cameashore, they began to argue, uncertain about their positions and objectives. Theysent messengers to ask their next step: Advance? Consolidate? Hammersley hadno answers. Stopford had stayed on a boat offshore, from which to control thebattlefield--but on that boat he was impossible to reach quickly enough to getprompt orders from him. Hamilton was on an island still farther away. The daywas frittered away in argument and the endless relaying of messages.The next morning Hamilton began to sense that something