our times, and the tremendous power it can bringus.The structure of Mastery is simple. There are six chapters, movingsequentially through the process. Chapter 1 is the starting point—discoveringyour calling, your Life’s Task. Chapters 2, 3, and 4 discuss different elements ofthe Apprenticeship Phase (learning skills, working with mentors, acquiringsocial intelligence). Chapter 5 is devoted to the Creative-Active Phase, andchapter 6 to the ultimate goal—Mastery. Each chapter begins with the story ofan iconic historical figure who exemplifies the chapter’s overall concept. Thesection that follows, Keys to Mastery, gives you a detailed analysis of the phaseinvolved, concrete ideas on how to apply this knowledge to your circumstances,and the mind-set that is necessary to fully exploit these ideas. Following theKeys is a section detailing the strategies of Masters—contemporary andhistorical—who have used various methods to advance them through theprocess. These strategies are designed to give you an even greater sense of thepractical application of the ideas in the book, and to inspire you to follow in thefootsteps of these Masters, showing how their power is eminently attainable.For all of the contemporary Masters and some of the historical ones, theirstories will continue over several chapters. In such cases there may be a slightrepetition of biographical information in order to recap what happened in theprevious phase of their lives. Page numbers in parentheses will refer back tothese earlier narrations.Finally, you must not see this process of moving through levels of intelligence asmerely linear, heading toward some kind of ultimate destination known as merely linear, heading toward some kind of ultimate destination known asmastery. Your whole life is a kind of apprenticeship to which you apply yourlearning skills. Everything that happens to you is a form of instruction if you payattention. The creativity that you gain in learning a skill so deeply must beconstantly refreshed, as you keep forcing your mind back to a state of openness.Even knowledge of your vocation must be revisited throughout the course ofyour life as changes in circumstance force you to adapt its direction.In moving toward mastery, you are bringing your mind closer to reality andto life itself. Anything that is alive is in a continual state of change andmovement. The moment that you rest, thinking that you have attained the levelyou desire, a part of your mind enters a phase of decay. You lose your hard-earned creativity and others begin to sense it. This is a power and intelligencethat must be continually renewed or it will die.Do not talk about giftedness, inborn talents! One can name great men of all kinds who werevery little gifted. They acquired greatness, became “geniuses” (as we put it), throughqualities the lack of which no one who knew what they were would boast of: they allpossessed that seriousness of the efficient workman which first learns to construct the partsproperly before it ventures to fashion a great whole; they allowed themselves time for it,because they took more pleasure in making the little, secondary things well than in the effectof a dazzling whole.—FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE IDISCOVER YOUR CALLING: THE