sharp contrast with the other side. If you have to resort to speeches to makethis contrast, you are on shaky ground: people distrust words. Insisting that you are strong or well qualified rings as self-promotion. Instead make the opposingside talk and take the first move. Once they have committed to a position andfixed it in other people's minds, they are ripe for the sickle. Now you can create acontrast by quoting their words back at them, showing how different you are--intone, in attitude, in action. Make the contrast deep. If they commit to someradical position, do not respond by being moderate (moderation is generallyweak); attack them for promoting instability, for being power-hungryrevolutionaries. If they respond by toning down their appeal, nail them for beinginconsistent. If they stay the course, their message will wear thin. If they becomemore strident in self-defense, you make your point about their instability.Use this strategy in the battles of daily life, letting people committhemselves to a position you can turn into a dead end. Never say you are strong,show you are, by making a contrast between yourself and your inconsistent ormoderate opponents. 3. The Turks entered World War I on the side of Germany. Their main enemiesin the Middle Eastern theater were the British, who were based in Egypt, but by1917 they had arrived at a comfortable stalemate: the Turks controlled a strategiceight-hundred-mile stretch of railway that ran from Syria in the north to theHejaz (the southwestern part of Arabia) in the south. Due west of the central partof this railway line was the town of Aqaba, on the Red Sea, a key Turkishposition from which they could quickly move armies north and south to protectthe railway.The Turks had already beaten back the British at Gallipoli (see chapter 5), ahuge boost to their morale. Their commanders in the Middle East felt secure.The English had tried to stir up a revolt against the Turks among the Arabs of theHejaz, hoping the revolt would spread north; the Arabs had managed a few raidshere and there but had fought more among themselves than against the Turks.The British clearly coveted Aqaba and plotted to take it from the sea with theirpowerful navy, but behind Aqaba was a mountain wall marked by deep gorges.The Turks had converted the mountain into a fortress. The British knew thateven if their navy took Aqaba, they would be unable to advance inland,rendering the city's capture useless. Both the British and the Turks saw thesituation the same way, and the stalemate endured.In June 1917 the Turkish commanders of the forts guarding Aqaba receivedreports of strange enemy movements in the Syrian deserts to the northeast. Itseemed that a twenty-nine-year-old British liaison officer to the Arabs named T. E. Lawrence had trekked across hundreds of miles of desolate terrain to recruitan army among the Howeitat, a Syrian tribe renowned for fighting on camels.The Turks dispatched scouts to find out more. They already knew a little aboutLawrence: unusually for British officers of the time, he spoke Arabic, mixedwell with