too vulnerable to face the next battle. And indeed, after the"victory" at Asculum, Pyrrhus staggered from one disaster to the next, his armynever quite strong enough to defeat his growing hosts of enemies. This culminated in his untimely death in battle, ending Epirus's hopes to become apower in Greece.Pyrrhus could have avoided this downward spiral. Advance intelligencewould have told him about both the disciplined ferocity of the Romans and thedecadence and treachery of the Tarentines, and, knowing this, he could havetaken more time to build an army or canceled the expedition altogether. Once hesaw that he had been tricked, he could have turned back; after Heraclea therewas still time to retrench, consolidate, quit while he was ahead. Had he done anyof this, his story might have had a different ending. But Pyrrhus could not stophimself--the dream was too alluring. Why worry about the costs? He couldrecover later. One more battle, one more victory, would seal the deal.Pyrrhic victories are much more common than you might think. Excitementabout a venture's prospects is natural before it begins, and if the goal is enticing,we unconsciously see what we want to see--more of the possible gains, fewer ofthe possible difficulties. The further we go, the harder it becomes to pull backand rationally reassess the situation. In such circumstances the costs tend not justto mount--they spiral out of control. If things go badly, we get exhausted, whichleads us to make mistakes, which lead to new, unforeseen problems, which inturn lead to new costs. Any victories we might have along the way aremeaningless.Understand: the more you want the prize, the more you must compensate byexamining what getting it will take. Look beyond the obvious costs and thinkabout the intangible ones: the goodwill you may squander by waging war, thefury of the loser if you win, the time that winning may take, your debt to yourallies. You can always wait for a better time; you can always try something morein line with your resources. Remember: history is littered with the corpses ofpeople who ignored the costs. Save yourself unnecessary battles and live to fightanother day.When the weapons have grown dull and spirits depressed, when our strengthhas been expended and resources consumed, then others will take advantageof our exhaustion to arise. Then even if you have wise generals you cannotmake things turn out well in the end.--The Art of War, Sun-tzu (fourth century B.C.)STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSESWhen Queen Elizabeth I (1533-1603) ascended the throne of England in 1558,she inherited a second-rate power: the country had been racked by civil war, andits finances were in a mess. Elizabeth dreamed of creating a long period of peace in which she could slowly rebuild England's foundations and particularly itseconomy: a government with money was a government with options. England, asmall island with limited resources, could not hope to compete in war withFrance and Spain, the great powers of Europe. Instead it would gain strengththrough trade and economic stability.He whom the ancients called an expert in battle gained victory where victorywas easily gained.