to the fight. If the enemy cannot be preempted or dislocated, thenthe maneuver-warfare practitioner will attempt to disrupt the enemy, i.e.,destroy or neutralize his center of gravity, preferably by attacking withfriendly strengths through enemy weaknesses.THE ART OF MANEUVER, ROBERT R. LEONHARD, 1991By the end of March 1800, Napoleon had emerged from his office with aplan for a campaign in northern Italy that went far beyond anything hislieutenants had ever seen before. In the middle of April, a French army underGeneral Jean Moreau would cross the Rhine and push the eastern Austrian armyback into Bavaria. Then Napoleon would lead a 50,000-man force, already inplace in Switzerland, into northern Italy through several different passes in theAlps. Moreau would then release one of his divisions to move south and followNapoleon into Italy. Moreau's initial move into Bavaria, and the subsequentscattered dispatch of divisions into Italy, would confuse the Austrians as to Napoleon's intentions. And if the Austrian army at the Rhine was pushed east, itwould be too distant to support the Austrian army in northern Italy.Once across the Alps, Napoleon would concentrate his forces and link upwith the divisions under General Andre Massena already stationed in northernItaly. He would then move much of his army to the town of Stradella, cutting offcommunications between Melas in northern Italy and command headquarters inAustria. With Melas's troops now isolated and the mobile French army withinreach of them, Napoleon would have many excellent options for dislocating anddestroying them. At one point, as he described this plan to Bourienne, Napoleonlay down on the giant map on his floor and stuck a pin next to the town ofMarengo, in the center of the Italian theater of war. "I will fight him here," hesaid.A few weeks later, as Napoleon began to position his armies, he receivedsome troubling news: Melas had beaten him to the punch by attacking Massena'sarmy in Northern Italy. Massena was forced back to Genoa, where the Austriansquickly surrounded him. The danger here was great: if Massena surrendered, theAustrians could sweep into southern France. Also, Napoleon had been countingon Massena's army to help him beat Melas. Yet he took the news with surprisingcalm and simply made some adjustments: he transferred more men toSwitzerland and sent word to Massena that he must do whatever he could to holdout for at least eight weeks, keeping Melas busy while Napoleon moved intoItaly.Within a week there was more irritating news. After Moreau had begun thecampaign to push the Austrians back from the Rhine, he refused to transfer thedivision that Napoleon had counted on for Italy, claiming he could not spare it.Instead he sent a smaller, less experienced division. The French army inSwitzerland had already begun the dangerous crossings through the Alps.Napoleon had no choice but to take what Moreau gave him.By May 24, Napoleon had brought his army safely into Italy. Absorbed withthe siege at Genoa, Melas ignored reports of French movements to the north.Next Napoleon advanced to Milan, close to Stradella, where he cut Austriancommunications as planned. Now, like a cat