throughout his writing toillustrate his ideas. People like to be shown ways to fancy themselves modernCaesars or Medicis, and they like to be entertained by a good story; and a mindcaptivated by a story is relatively undefended and open to suggestion. Readersbarely notice that in reading these stories--or, rather, in reading Machiavelli'scleverly altered versions of them--they are absorbing ideas. Machiavelli alsoquoted classical writers, adjusting the quotations to suit his purposes. Hisdangerous counsels and ideas would be easier to accept if they seemed to beemerging from the mouth of a Livy or a Tacitus.Finally, Machiavelli used stark, unadorned language to give his writingmovement. Instead of finding their minds slowing and stopping, his readers areinfected with the desire to go beyond thought and take action. His advice is oftenexpressed in violent terms, but this works to rouse his readers from their stupor.It also appeals to the young, the most fertile ground from which new princesgrow. He left his writing open-ended, never telling people exactly what to do.They must use their own ideas and experiences with power to fill in his writing,becoming complicit partners in the text. Through these various devices,Machiavelli gained power over his readers while disguising the nature of hismanipulations. It is hard to resist what you cannot see.Understand: you may have brilliant ideas, the kind that could revolutionizethe world, but unless you can express them effectively, they will have no force,no power to enter people's minds in a deep and lasting way. You must focus noton yourself or on the need you feel to express what you have to say but on youraudience--as intently as a general focuses on the enemy he is strategizing todefeat. When dealing with people who are bored and have short attention spans,you must entertain them, sneaking your ideas in through the back door. Withleaders you must be careful and indirect, perhaps using third parties to disguisethe source of the ideas you are trying to spread. With the young your expressionmust be more violent. In general, your words must have movement, sweepingreaders along, never calling attention to their own cleverness. You are not afterpersonal expression, but power and influence. The less people consciously focuson the communicative form you have chosen, the less they realize how far your dangerous ideas are burrowing into their minds.The Lydian King Croesus had had Miltiades much in this thoughts so when helearned of his capture, he sent a command to the people of Lampsacus to sethim at liberty; if they refused, he was determined, he added, to "cut themdown like a pine-tree." The people of the town were baffled by Croesus'threat, and at a loss to understand what being cut down like a pine-tree mightmean, until at last the true significance of the phrase dawned upon a certainelderly man: the pine, he explained, was the only kind of tree which sent upno new shoots after being felled--cut down a pine and it will die offcompletely. The explanation made the Lampsacenes so frightened of Croesusthat they let Miltiades go. THE HISTORIES, HERODOTUS,