genetic in origin and universal, but that each language has elementsthat reflect the uniqueness of its culture. Culture plays a larger role than wemight imagine in how we think and communicate.In 2005 he finally felt ready to make all of this public, and had an articlepublished in an anthropology journal that expressed these revolutionary ideas.He expected that his findings might stir up some animated discussion, but he wasnot prepared at all for what would ensue.People at MIT (linguists and graduate students) associated with Chomskybegan to hound Everett. When he gave a talk at an important symposium at theUniversity of Cambridge about his findings, some of these linguists flew over toattend it. They peppered him with questions meant to poke holes in his ideas andpublicly embarrass him. Not ready for this, Everett fumbled and did not handle itwell. This continue with subsequent lectures. They zeroed in on any kind ofinconsistency in his talk or his writings, and used these inconsistencies todiscredit his overall idea. Some of their attacks on him became personal—theypublicly called him a charlatan, and questioned his motives. Even Chomskyhimself implied that Everett was out for fame and money.When Everett published his first book, Don’t Sleep, There are Snakes, someof these linguists wrote letters to critics who were going to review it, trying todissuade them from even discussing his material—it was too far below academic standards, they claimed. They went so far as to put pressure on National PublicRadio, which was about to do a large segment on Everett. The show wascanceled.At first Everett could not help but become emotional. What his detractorswere bringing up in their arguments did not discredit his theory, but merelyrevealed some possible weak points. They seemed less interested in the truth andmore concerned with making him look bad. Quickly, however, he moved pastthis emotional stage and began to use these attacks for his own purpose—theyforced him to make sure everything he wrote was airtight; they made him rethinkand strengthen his arguments. He could hear their possible criticisms in his head,and he addressed them one by one in his subsequent writings. This made him abetter writer and thinker, and the controversy they stirred up only increased thesales of Don’t Sleep, There are Snakes, winning many converts to his argumentin the process. In the end, he came to welcome the attacks of his enemies forhow much they had improved his work and toughened him up. In the course of your life you will be continually encountering fools. There aresimply too many to avoid. We can classify people as fools by the followingrubric: when it comes to practical life, what should matter is getting long-termresults, and getting the work done in as efficient and creative a manner aspossible. That should be the supreme value that guides people’s actions. Butfools carry with them a different scale of values. They place more importance onshort-term matters—grabbing immediate money, getting attention from thepublic or media, and looking good. They are ruled by their ego and insecurities.They tend to enjoy drama and