unique personality. Our circumstances are also unique; no situation everreally repeats itself. But most often we are barely aware of what makes usdifferent--in other words, of who we really are. Our ideas come from books,teachers, all kinds of unseen influences. We respond to events routinely andmechanically instead of trying to understand their differences. In our dealingswith other people, too, we are easily infected by their tempo and mood. All thiscreates a kind of fog. We fail to see events for what they are; we do not knowourselves.Your task as a strategist is simple: to see the differences between yourselfand other people, to understand yourself, your side, and the enemy as well asyou can, to get more perspective on events, to know things for what they are. Inthe hubbub of daily life, this is not easy--in fact, the power to do it can comeonly from knowing when and how to retreat. If you are always advancing,always attacking, always responding to people emotionally, you have no time togain perspective. Your strategies will be weak and mechanical, based on thingsthat happened in the past or to someone else. Like a monkey, you will imitateinstead of create. Retreating is something you must do every now and then, tofind yourself and detach yourself from infecting influences. And the best time todo this is in moments of difficulty and danger.Symbolically the retreat is religious, or mythological. It was only byescaping into the desert that Moses and the Jews were able to solidify theiridentity and reemerge as a social and political force. Jesus spent his forty days inthe wilderness, and Mohammed, too, fled Mecca at a time of great peril for aperiod of retreat. He and just a handful of his most devoted supporters used thisperiod to deepen their bonds, to understand who they were and what they stoodfor, to let time work its good. Then this little band of believers reemerged toconquer Mecca and the Arabian Peninsula and later, after Mohammed's death, todefeat the Byzantines and the Persian empire, spreading Islam over vastterritories. Around the world every mythology has a hero who retreats, even toHades itself in the case of Odysseus, to find himself.Opportunities are changing ceaselessly. Those who get there too early havegone too far, while those who get there too late cannot catch up. As the sunand moon go through their courses, time does not go along with people. Therefore, sages do not value huge jewels as much as they value a little time.Time is hard to find and easy to lose. HUAINANZI, CHINA, SECOND CENTURY B.C.If Moses had stayed and fought in Egypt, the Jews would be a footnote inhistory. If Mohammed had taken on his enemies in Mecca, he would have beencrushed and forgotten. When you fight someone more powerful than you are,you lose more than your possessions and position; you lose your ability to thinkstraight, to keep yourself separate and distinct. You become infected with theemotions and violence of the aggressor in ways you cannot imagine. Better toflee and use the