out of office eighteen months later? Thatwould be a devastating setback to his dream of the presidency. If, after theelection, he had basked in his moment of triumph, he would have sown the seedsof failure in the next election. He had made too many enemies--if they didn't runagainst him in 1938, they would stir up trouble while he was away inWashington. So Johnson immediately worked to win these men over, whetherwith charm, with meaningful gestures, or with clever appeals to their self-interest. He kept his eye on the future, and on the kind of success that wouldkeep him moving forward.It is even possible that the attacker, reinforced by the psychological forcespeculiar to attack, will in spite of his exhaustion find it less difficult to go onthan to stop--like a horse pulling a load uphill. We believe that thisdemonstrates without inconsistency how an attacker can overshoot the pointat which, if he stopped and assumed the defensive, there would still be achance of success--that is, of equilibrium. It is therefore important tocalculate this point correctly when planning the campaign. An attacker may otherwise take on more than he can manage and, as it were, get into debt; adefender must be able to recognize this error if the enemy commits it, andexploit it to the full. In reviewing the whole array of factors a general mustweigh before making his decision, we must remember that he can gauge thedirection and value of the most important ones only by considering numerousother possibilities--some immediate, some remote. He must guess, so tospeak: guess whether the first shock of battle will steel the enemy's resolveand stiffen his resistance, or whether, like a Bologna flask, it will shatter assoon as its surface is scratched; guess the extent of debilitation and paralysisthat the drying-up of the particular sources of supply and the severing ofcertain lines of communication will cause in the enemy; guess whether theburning pain of the injury he has been dealt will make the enemy collapsewith exhaustion or, like a wounded bull, arouse his rage; guess whether theother powers will be frightened or indignant, and whether and which politicalalliances will be dissolved or formed. When we realize that he must hit uponall this and much more by means of his discreet judgement, as a marks-manhits a target, we must admit that such an accomplishment of the human mindis no small achievement. Thousands of wrong turns running in all directionstempt his perception; and if the range, confusion and complexity of the issuesare not enough to overwhelm him, the dangers and responsibilities may. Thisis why the great majority of generals will prefer to stop well short of theirobjective rather than risk approaching it too closely, and why those with highcourage and an enterprising spirit will often overshoot it and so fail to attaintheir purpose. Only the man who can achieve great results with limited meanshas really hit the mark.ON WAR, CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ, 1780-1831Johnson used the same approach in his efforts to win over voters. Instead oftrying to persuade people