works to dominate the key positionsthat will give it control of the theater, but military leaders must try to end it asquickly as possible. The longer it drags on, the more the army's resources arestretched to a breaking point where the ability to fight collapses. Soldiers' moraledeclines with time as well.As with any human activity, however, this positive, orderly side generates a negative, shadow side that contains its own form of power and reverse logic. Theshadow side is guerrilla warfare. The rudiments of guerrilla warfare originatedthousands of years ago, when smaller nations found themselves invaded by morepowerful neighbors; to survive, their armies were forced to flee the invader, forany direct engagement would have destroyed them. It soon became clear that thelonger they fled and eluded battle, the more they ruined the enemy's strategiesand confused it by not conforming to the usual logic of engagement.Such was the system Spain used against us. One hundred and fifty to twohundred guerrilla bands scattered all over Spain had sworn to kill thirty orforty Frenchmen a month each: that made six to eight thousand men a monthfor all guerrilla bands together. The order was never to attack soldierstraveling as a body, unless the guerrillas outnumbered them. But they fired onall stragglers, attacked small escorts, and sought to lay hands on the enemy'sfunds, couriers, and especially convoys. As all the inhabitants acted as spiesfor their fellow citizens, the guerrillas knew when the convoys would leaveand how strong their escorts would be, and the bands would make sure theywere twice the size. They knew the country very well, and they would attackfuriously in the most favorable spot. Success often crowned the undertaking;but they always killed a lot of men, and the goal was achieved. As there aretwelve months in the year, we were losing about eighty thousand men a year,without any pitched battles. The war in Spain lasted seven years, so over fivehundred men were killed.... But that includes only those killed by theguerrillas. Add the battles of Salamanca, Talavera, and Vitoria, and severalothers that our troops lost; the sieges,...the fruitless attack on Cadiz; add toothe invasion and evacuation of Portugal, the fevers and various illnesses thatthe temperature caused our soldiers to suffer, and you will see that we couldadd a further three hundred thousand men to that number during those sevenyears....... From what has been said, it will be apparent that the prime aim ofthis sort of war is to bring about the destruction of the enemy almost withouthim noticing it, and as a drop of water dripping on a stone will eventually diga hole in the stone, patience and perseverance are needed, always followingthe same system. In the long run, the enemy will suffer more from this than hewould from losing pitched battles.ON PARTISANS AND IRREGULAR FORCES, J.F.A. LE MIERE DECORVEY, 1823The next step was to take this further: these early guerrilla warriors learnedthe value of operating in small, dispersed bands as opposed to a concentrated army, keeping in constant motion, never forming a front,