of France's most respected militaryofficials, a man with a record far more distinguished than de Gaulle's. Churchillapproved, and Giraud was named commander in chief of French forces in NorthAfrica. Sensing the allied plot, de Gaulle requested a personal meeting withGiraud to discuss the situation; after much bureaucratic wrangling, he wasgranted permission and arrived in Algiers in May 1943.The two men were at each other's throats almost immediately, each makingdemands to which the other could never agree. Finally de Gaulle compromised: proposing a committee that would prepare to lead a postwar France, he drafted adocument naming Giraud as commander in chief of the armed forces andcopresident of France with de Gaulle. In return de Gaulle got the committee tobe expanded in size and cleansed of officials with Vichy connections. Giraudwas satisfied and signed on. Shortly thereafter, however, Giraud left Algiers for avisit to the United States, and de Gaulle, in his absence, filled the expandedcommittee with Gaullist sympathizers and Resistance members. Upon Giraud'sreturn he discovered that he had been stripped of much of his political power.Isolated on a committee that he had helped to form, he had no way to defendhimself, and in a matter of months de Gaulle was named sole president, thencommander in chief. Giraud was quietly retired.Roosevelt and Churchill watched these developments with increasing alarm.They tried to intervene, making various threats, but in the end they werepowerless. Those BBC broadcasts that had started out so innocently were nowlistened to avidly by millions of Frenchmen. Through Moulin, de Gaulle hadgained almost complete control of the French Resistance; a break with de Gaullewould put the Allies' relationship with the Resistance in jeopardy. And thecommittee that de Gaulle had helped form to govern postwar France was nowrecognized by governments around the world. To take on the general in any kindof political struggle would be a public-relations nightmare destructive to the wareffort.Somehow this once undistinguished general had forged a kind of empireunder his control. And there was nothing anyone could do about it.InterpretationWhen General Charles de Gaulle fled to England, he had one goal: to restore thehonor of France. He intended to do this by leading a military and politicalorganization that would work to liberate France. He wanted his country to beseen as an equal among the Allies, rather than as a vanquished nation dependenton others to regain its freedom.Had de Gaulle announced his intentions, he would have been seen as adangerous mix of delusion and ambition. And had he grabbed for power tooquickly, he would have shown those intentions. Instead, supremely patient andwith an eye on his goal, he took one small bite at a time. The first bite--alwaysthe most important--was to gain himself public exposure with first one BBCbroadcast, then, through clever maneuvering, an ongoing series. Here, exploitinghis keen dramatic instincts and hypnotic voice, he quickly established a larger-than-life presence. This allowed him to create and build up his military groupFighting France. He took his next bite by bringing those African territories under the controlof Fighting France. His control over