farther from home, the Persian navy, which couldland an army almost anywhere in the Mediterranean to attack them from the rearor flank, was a worrying threat. Before Alexander set out on his expedition,many had advised him to build up the Greek navy and take the battle to thePersians by sea as well as land. Alexander had ignored them. Instead, as he passed through Asia Minor and then along the coast of Phoenicia, he simplycaptured Persia's principal ports, rendering their navy useless.These small victories, then, had a greater strategic purpose. Even so, theywould have meant little had the Greeks been unable to defeat the Persians inbattle--and Alexander seemed to be making that victory more difficult. ThePersian king, Darius, was concentrating his forces east of the Tigris River; hehad numbers and his choice of location and could wait in ease for Alexander tocross the river. Had Alexander lost his taste for battle? Had Persian and Egyptianculture softened him? It seemed so: he had begun to wear Persian clothes and toadopt Persian customs. He was even seen worshipping Persian gods.As the Persian army retreated east of the Tigris, large areas of the Persianempire had come under Greek control. Now Alexander spent much of his timenot on warfare but on politics, trying to see how best to govern these regions. Hedecided to build on the Persian system already in place, keeping the same titlesfor jobs in the governmental bureaucracy, collecting the same tribute that Dariushad done. He changed only the harsh, unpopular aspects of Persian rule. Wordquickly spread of his generosity and gentleness toward his new subjects. Townafter town surrendered to the Greeks without a fight, only too glad to be part ofAlexander's growing empire, which transcended Greece and Persia. He was theunifying factor, the benevolent overseeing god.Epistemologically speaking, the source of all erroneous views on war lies inidealist and mechanistic tendencies.... People with such tendencies aresubjective and one-sided in their approach to problems. They indulge ingroundless and purely subjective talk, basing themselves upon a single aspector temporary manifestation [and] magnify it with similar subjectivity into thewhole of the problem.... Only by opposing idealistic and mechanistictendencies and taking an objective all-sided view in making a study of warcan we draw correct conclusions on the question of war.SELECTED MILITARY WRITINGS, MAO TSE-TUNG, 1893-1976Finally, in 331 B.C., Alexander marched on the main Persian force atArbela. What his generals had not understood was that, deprived of the use of itsnavy, its rich lands in Egypt, and the support and tribute of almost all of itssubjects, the Persian Empire had already crumbled. Alexander's victory at Arbelamerely confirmed militarily what he had already achieved months earlier: he wasnow the ruler of the once mighty Persian Empire. Fulfilling his mother'sprophecy, he controlled almost all of the known world. InterpretationAlexander the Great's maneuvers bewildered his staff: they seemed to have nologic, no consistency. Only later could the Greeks look back and really see hismagnificent achievement. The reason they could not understand him was thatAlexander had invented a whole new way of