hearts by hisclemency on his day of triumph. Such generosity, or statesmanship, wasparticularly remarkable among Arabs, a race to whom revenge has alwaysbeen dear. His success had been won by policy and diplomacy rather than bymilitary action. In an age of violence and bloodshed, he had realized thatideas are more powerful than force.THE GREAT ARAB CONQUESTS, JOHN BAGOT GLUBB, 1963Meanwhile Karmal initiated programs to teach literacy, to give more powerto women, to develop and modernize the country--all to peel off support fromthe rebels. But the Afghans preferred their traditional way of life by a vastmajority, and the Communist Party's attempts to expand its influence had theopposite effect.Most ominous of all, Afghanistan quickly became a magnet for othercountries eager to exploit the situation there against the Soviets. The UnitedStates in particular saw an opportunity to revenge itself on Russia for supplying the North Vietnamese during the Vietnam War. The CIA funneled vast sums ofmoney and materiel to the mujahideen. In neighboring Pakistan, President Ziaul-Haq viewed the invasion as a gift from heaven: having come to power a fewyears earlier in a military coup, and having recently earned worldwidecondemnation by executing his prime minister, Zia saw a way to gain favor withboth the United States and the Arab nations by allowing Pakistan to serve as abase for the mujahideen. The Egyptian president Anwar Sadat, who had recentlysigned a controversial peace treaty with Israel, likewise saw a goldenopportunity to shore up his Islamic support by sending aid to fellow Muslims.With Soviet armies stretched thin in Eastern Europe and around the world,Ustinov refused to send in more men; instead he armed his soldiers with thelatest weaponry and worked to enlarge and strengthen the Afghan army. Butnone of this translated into progress. The mujahideen improved their ambushesof Soviet transports and used the latest Stinger missiles acquired from theAmericans to great effect. Years passed, and morale in the Soviet army droppedprecipitously: the soldiers felt the hatred of the local population and were stuckguarding static positions, never knowing when the next ambush would come.Abuse of drugs and alcohol became widespread.As the costs of the war rose, the Russian public began to turn against it. Butthe Soviet leaders could not afford to pull out: besides creating a dangerouspower vacuum in Afghanistan, that would deliver a sharp blow to their globalreputation as a superpower. And so they stayed, each year supposedly the last.The senior members of the Politburo slowly died off--Brezhnev in 1982,Andropov and Ustinov in 1984--without seeing the slightest progress.In 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev became general secretary of the Soviet Union.Having opposed the war from the beginning, Gorbachev started phasedwithdrawals of troops from Afghanistan. The last soldiers left early in 1989. Inall, over 14,000 Soviet soldiers died in the conflict, but the hidden costs--to thedelicate Russian economy, to the people's slender faith in their government--were far greater. Only a few years later, the entire system would come tumblingdown.InterpretationThe great German general Erwin Rommel once made a distinction between agamble and a risk. Both cases involve an action with only