But they cross thefinish line with distinctly less enthusiasm and energy than they had starting out.This mars the end of the campaign. Because they are impatient to finish, theending seems hurried and patched together. And it leaves other people feelingslightly unsatisfied; it is not memorable, does not last, has no resonance. Both of these types begin each project without a firm idea of how to end it.And as the project progresses, inevitably differing from what they had imaginedit would be, they become unsure how to get out of it and either give up or simplyrush to the end.The great prizefighter Jack Dempsey was once asked, "When you are about tohit a man, do you aim for his chin or his nose?" "Neither," Dempsey replied."I aim for the back of his head."QUOTED IN THE MIND OF WAR, GRANT T. HAMMOND, 2001The third group comprises those who understand a primary law of power andstrategy: the end of something--a project, a campaign, a conversation--hasinordinate importance for people. It resonates in the mind. A war can begin withgreat fanfare and can bring many victories, but if it ends badly, that is all anyoneremembers. Knowing the importance and the emotional resonance of the endingof anything, people of the third type understand that the issue is not simplyfinishing what they have started but finishing it well--with energy, a clear head,and an eye on the afterglow, the way the event will linger in people's minds.These types invariably begin with a clear plan. When setbacks come, as setbackswill, they are able to stay patient and think rationally. They plan not just to theend but past it, to the aftermath. These are the ones who create things that last--ameaningful peace, a memorable work of art, a long and fruitful career.The reason it is hard to end things well is simple: endings inspireoverpowering emotions. At the end of a bitter conflict, we have a deep desire forpeace, an impatience for the truce. If the conflict is bringing us victory, we oftensuccumb to delusions of grandeur or are swept by greed and grab for more thanwe need. If the conflict has been nasty, anger moves us to finish with a violent,punitive strike. If we lose, we are left with a burning desire for revenge.Emotions like these can ruin all of our prior good work. There is in fact nothingharder in the realm of strategy than keeping our head on straight all the way tothe end and past the end--yet nothing is more necessary.Napoleon Bonaparte was perhaps the greatest general that ever lived. Hisstrategies were marvels of combined flexibility and detail, and he planned all theway to the end. But after defeating the Austrians at Austerlitz and then thePrussians at Jena-Auerstadt--his two greatest victories--he imposed on thesenations harsh terms intended to make them weakened satellites of France.Accordingly, in the years after the treaties, both countries harbored a powerfuldesire for revenge. They secretly built up their armies and waited for the daywhen Napoleon would be vulnerable. That moment came after his disastrous retreat