growing out of another. He began to entertain theradical idea that humans themselves evolved from primitive life forms—that wasthe way, after all, of nature.One of the main arguments of the time against such evolutionary theory wasthe nonexistence of the intermaxillary bone in humans. It exists in all loweranimals in the jaw, including primates, but at the time could not be found in thehuman skull. This was paraded as evidence that man is separate and created by adivine force. Based on his idea that all of nature is interconnected, Goethe couldnot accept such a hypothesis, and through much research he discovered remnantsof the intermaxillary bone in the upper cheekbones of human infants, theultimate indication of our connection to all other life forms.His style of science was unconventional for the time. He had the idea thatthere existed a form of archetypal plant that could be deduced from the shapeand development of all plants. In his study of bones, he liked to compare all lifeforms to see whether there were similarities in the construction of parts such asthe vertebral column. He was obsessed with the connections between life forms,the result of his Faustian desire to get at the essence of all life. He felt thatphenomena in nature contained the theory of their essence in their own structure,if we could only grasp it with our senses and our minds. Almost all scientists atthe time ridiculed his work, but in the decades to follow it was recognized thathe had developed perhaps the first real concept of evolution, and his other workwas the precursor to such later sciences as morphology and comparativeanatomy.In Weimar, Goethe was a changed man—a sober scientist and thinker. But in 1801 another bout of illness came close to killing him yet again. It took years torecover, but by 1805 he felt his strength returning, and with it a return tosensations he had not experienced since his youth. That year initiated one of thestrangest and most amazing periods of productivity in the history of the humanmind, stretching from his midfifties to his late sixties. The daemon he hadrepressed for several decades broke loose once more, but now he had thediscipline to channel it into all kinds of work. Poems, novels, and plays camepouring out of him. He took up Faust again, writing most of it in this period. Hisday was an almost insane medley of different studies—writing in the morning,experiments and scientific observations (which were now expanded to chemistryand meteorology) in the afternoon, discussions with friends about aesthetics,science, and politics in the evening. He seemed to be tireless, and to be goingthrough a second youth.Goethe had now come to the conclusion that all forms of human knowledgeare manifestations of the same life force he had intuited in his near-deathexperience as a young man. The problem with most people, he felt, is that theybuild artificial walls around subjects and ideas. The real thinker sees theconnections, grasps the essence of the life force operating in every individualinstance. Why should any individual stop at poetry, or