a group or pay attention to everyone else's emotional needs. It allows youautonomy.THE LION AND THE WILD ASSA lion and a wild ass entered into an agreement to hunt wild beasts together.The lion was to use his great strength, while the ass would make use of hisgreater speed. When they had taken a certain number of animals, the liondivided up the spoils into three portions. "I'll take the first share because I amthe king," he said. "The second share will be mine because I have been yourpartner in the chase," he said. "As for the third share," he said to the wild ass,"this share will be a great source of harm to you, believe me, if you do notyield it up to me. And, by the way, get lost!" It is suitable always to calculateyour own strength, and not to enter into an alliance with people stronger thanyourself. FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C.Throughout your life you will find yourself in groups that demand fusion,forcing you into all kinds of false alliances that command your emotions. Youmust find a way to the position of strength and power: able to interact andengage with people while staying autonomous. You deftly avoid false alliancesby taking provocative actions that make it impossible for people to entrap you.You shake up the dynamic as much as possible, targeting the troublemakers andcontrollers. Once you are in a position where you are able to stay rational withinthe group, you can seem to join an alliance without worrying about youremotions running away with you. And you will find that as the person who issimultaneously autonomous and part of the group, you will become a center ofgravity and attention.Enter into action under the cover of helping another's interests, only tofurther your own in the end.... This is the perfect stratagem and disguiseforrealizing your ambitions, for the advantages you seem to offer only serveas lures to influence the other person's will. They think their interests arebeing advanced when in truth they are opening the way for yours.--Baltasar Gracian (1601-1658)KEYS TO WARFARE To survive and advance at all in life, we find ourselves constantly having to useother people for some purpose, some need--to obtain resources we cannot get onour own, to give us protection of some sort, to compensate for a skill or talent wedo not possess. As a description of human relationships, however, the word"use" has ugly connotations, and in any case we always like to make our actionsseem nobler than they are. We prefer to think of these interactions asrelationships of assistance, partnering, friendship.This is not a matter of mere semantics; it is the source of a dangerousconfusion that will harm you in the end. When you look for an ally, you have aneed, an interest you want met. This is a practical, strategic matter upon whichyour success depends. If you allow emotions and appearances to infect the kindsof alliances you form, you are in danger. The art of forming alliances depends onyour ability to separate friendship from need.The state of