Thus the battle of the expert is never an exceptionalvictory, nor does it win him reputation for wisdom or credit for courage. Hisvictories in battle are unerring. Unerring means that he acts where victory iscertain, and conquers an enemy that has already lost. THE ART OF WAR, SUN-TZU, FOURTH CENTURY B.C.Year by year for twenty years, Elizabeth made progress. Then, in the late1570s, her situation suddenly seemed dire: an imminent war with Spainthreatened to cancel all the gains of the previous two decades. The Spanish king,Philip II, was a devout Catholic who considered it his personal mission toreverse the spread of Protestantism. The Low Countries (now Holland andBelgium) were properties of Spain at the time, but a growing Protestant rebellionwas threatening its rule, and Philip went to war with the rebels, determined tocrush them. Meanwhile his most cherished dream was to restore Catholicism toEngland. His short-term strategy was a plot to have Elizabeth assassinated andthen to place her half sister, the Catholic Mary Queen of Scots, on the Britishthrone. In case this plan failed, his long-term strategy was to build an immensearmada of ships and invade England.Philip did not keep his intentions well hidden, and Elizabeth's ministers sawwar as inevitable. They advised her to send an army to the Low Countries,forcing Philip to put his resources there instead of into an attack on England--butElizabeth balked at that idea; she would send small forces there to help theProtestant rebels avert a military disaster, but she would not commit to anythingmore. Elizabeth dreaded war; maintaining an army was a huge expense, and allsorts of other hidden costs were sure to emerge, threatening the stability she hadbuilt up. If war with Spain really was inevitable, Elizabeth wanted to fight on herown terms; she wanted a war that would ruin Spain financially and leaveEngland safe.Defying her ministers, Elizabeth did what she could to keep the peace withSpain, refusing to provoke Philip. That bought her time to put aside funds for building up the British navy. Meanwhile she worked in secret to damage theSpanish economy, which she saw as its only weak spot. Spain's enormous,expanding empire in the New World made it powerful, but that empire was faraway. To maintain it and profit from it, Philip was entirely dependent onshipping, a vast fleet that he paid for with enormous loans from Italian bankers.His credit with these banks depended on the safe passage of his ships bringinggold from the New World. The power of Spain rested on a weak foundation.And so Queen Elizabeth unleashed her greatest captain, Sir Francis Drake,on the Spanish treasure ships. He was to appear to be operating on his own, apirate out for his own profit. No one was to know of the connection between himand the queen. With each ship that he captured, the interest rate on Philip's loanscrept upward, until eventually the Italian bankers were raising the rate morebecause of the threat of Drake than because of any specific loss. Philip hadhoped to launch his armada against England by 1582;