Realizing his mistake, Faraday metwith Wollaston and showed him how he had reached his results independent ofanyone else’s work. Wollaston agreed and let the matter drop. But the rumorscontinued, and soon it became clear that the source of them was Davy himself.He refused to accept Faraday’s explanation and no one knew quite why. WhenFaraday was nominated to the Royal Society because of his discovery, it wasDavy, as president, who tried to block it. A year later, when Faraday made yetanother important discovery, Davy claimed partial credit for it. He seemed tobelieve that he had created Faraday from nothing and so was responsible foreverything he did.Faraday had seen enough—their relationship was essentially over. He wouldnever correspond with or see him again. Now having authority within thescientific community, Faraday could do as he pleased. His coming experimentswould soon pave the way for all of the most important advances in electricalenergy, and for the field theories that would revolutionize science in thetwentieth century. He would go on to become one of history’s greatestpractitioners of experimental science, far outshining the fame of his one-timementor. KEYS TO MASTERYAt table, the ladies praised a portrait by a young painter. “What is most surprising,” theyadded, “he has learned everything by himself.” This could be seen particularly in the hands,which were not correctly and artistically drawn. “We see,” said Goethe, “that the youngman has talent; however, you should not praise, but rather blame him, for learningeverything by himself. A man of talent is not born to be left to himself, but to devote himselfto art and good masters who will make something of him.”—JOHANN PETER ECKERMANN, CONVERSATIONS WITH GOETHEIn the past, people of power had an aura of authority that was very real. Some ofthis aura emanated from their accomplishments, and some of it from the positionthey occupied—being a member of the aristocracy or a religious elite. This aurahad a definite effect and could be felt; it caused people to respect and worshipthose who possessed it. Over the centuries, however, the slow process ofdemocratization has worn away this aura of authority in all of its guises, to thepoint today of almost nonexistence.We feel, rightly so, that no one should be admired or worshipped merely forthe position they occupy, particularly if it comes from connections or aprivileged background. But this attitude carries over to people who have reachedtheir position mostly through their own accomplishments. We live in a culturethat likes to criticize and debunk any form of authority, to point out theweaknesses of those in power. If we feel any aura, it is in the presence ofcelebrities and their seductive personalities. Some of this skeptical spirit towardauthority is healthy, particularly in relation to politics, but when it comes tolearning and the Apprenticeship Phase, it presents a problem.To learn requires a sense of humility. We must admit that there are peopleout there who know our field much more deeply than we do. Their superiority isnot a function of natural talent or privilege, but rather of time and experience.Their authority in