the Athenians backed the wrong horse: Perdiccas's twenty-four-year-old brother, Philip, easily defeated Argaeus in battle and became king.To the Athenians' surprise, however, Philip did not push his advantage butstepped back, renouncing all claim to Amphipolis and making the cityindependent. He also released without ransom all the Athenian soldiers he hadcaptured in battle. He even discussed forming an alliance with Athens, his recent enemy, and in secret negotiations proposed to reconquer Amphipolis in a fewyears and deliver it to Athens in exchange for another city still under Atheniancontrol, an offer too good to refuse.The Athenian delegates at the talks reported that Philip was an amiable sortand that beneath his rude exterior he was clearly an admirer of Athenian culture--indeed, he invited Athens's most renowned philosophers and artists to reside inhis capital. Overnight, it seemed, the Athenians had gained an important ally tothe north. Philip set about fighting barbaric tribes on other borders, and peaceruled between the two powers.A few years later, as Athens was racked by an internal power struggle of itsown, Philip marched on and captured Amphipolis. Following their agreement,the Athenians dispatched envoys to negotiate, only to find, to their surprise, thatPhilip no longer offered them the city but merely made vague promises for thefuture. Distracted by their problems at home, the envoys had no choice but toaccept this. Now, with Amphipolis securely under his control, Philip hadunlimited access to the gold mines and rich forests in the area. It seemed that hehad been playing them all along.Now Demosthenes came forward to rail against the duplicitous Philip andwarn of the danger he posed to all of Greece. Urging the citizens of Athens toraise an army to meet the threat, the orator recalled their victories in the pastover other tyrants. Nothing happened then, but a few years later, when Philipmaneuvered to take the pass at Thermopylae--the narrow gateway that controlledmovement from central to southern Greece--Athens indeed sent an army todefend it. Philip retreated, and the Athenians congratulated themselves on theirvictory.In the years to come, the Athenians watched warily as Philip extended hisdomain to the north, the east, and well into central Greece. Then, in 346 B.C., hesuddenly proposed to negotiate a treaty with Athens. He had proved he could notbe trusted, of course, and many of the city's politicians had sworn never to dealwith him again, but the alternative was to risk war with Macedonia at a timewhen Athens was ill prepared for it. And Philip seemed absolutely sincere in hisdesire for a solid alliance, which, at the very least, would buy Athens a period ofpeace. So, despite their reservations, the Athenians sent ambassadors toMacedonia to sign a treaty called the Peace of Philocrates. By this agreementAthens relinquished its rights to Amphipolis and in exchange received promisesof security for its remaining outposts in the north.The ambassadors left satisfied, but on the way home they received news thatPhilip had marched on and taken Thermopylae. Challenged to explain himself,Philip responded that he had acted to secure his interests in central Greece from a