smouldering embers of liberty; it brought up myBaltimore dreams, and revived a sense of my own manhood. I was a changedbeing after that fight. I was nothing before; I WAS A MAN NOW. It recalled tolife my crushed self-respect and my self-confidence, and inspired me with arenewed determination to be A FREEMAN. A man, without force, is withoutthe essential dignity of humanity. Human nature is so constituted, that itcannot honor a helpless man, although it can pity him; and even this it cannotdo long, if the signs of power do not arise. He only can understand the effectof this combat on my spirit, who has himself incurred something, hazardedsomething, in repelling the unjust and cruel aggressions of a tyrant. Coveywas a tyrant, and a cowardly one, withal. After resisting him, I felt as I hadnever felt before. It was a resurrection from the dark and pestiferous tomb ofslavery, to the heaven of comparative freedom. I was no longer a servilecoward, trembling under the frown of a brother worm of the dust, but, mylong-cowed spirit was roused to an attitude of manly independence. I hadreached a point, at which I was not afraid to die . This spirit made me afreeman in fact , while I remained a slave in form . When a slave cannot beflogged he is more than half free. He has a domain as broad as his own manlyheart to defend, and he is really "a power on earth." While slaves prefer theirlives, with flogging, to instant death, they will always find christians enough,like unto Covey, to accommodate that preference. From this time, until that of my escape from slavery, I was never fairly whipped. Several attempts weremade to whip me, but they were always unsuccessful. Bruises I did get, as Ishall hereafter inform the reader; but the case I have been describing, wasthe end of the brutification to which slavery had subjected me.MY BONDAGE AND MY FREEDOM, FREDERICK DOUGLASS, 1818-1895Douglass managed to get to his feet, staggered to the woods, and somehowmade his way back to Auld's plantation. There he begged with Master Auld tokeep him there, explaining Covey's cruelty. Auld was unmoved. Douglass couldspend the night but then must return to Covey's farm.Making his way back to the farm, Douglass feared the worst. He told himselfthat he would do his best to obey Covey and somehow survive the weeks ahead.Arriving at the stables where he was supposed to work that day, he began hischores, when out of nowhere, like a snake, Covey slithered in, rope in hand. Helunged at Douglass, trying to get a slipknot on his leg and tie him up. He wasclearly intending the thrashing to end all thrashings.Risking an even more intense beating, Douglass pushed Covey away and,without hitting him, kept him from getting the rope around his leg. At thatmoment something clicked in Douglass's head. Every defiant thought that hadbeen suffocated by his months of brutal labor came back to him. He was notafraid. Covey could kill him, but it was