own party. Many had alreadyaccused him of dictatorial tendencies. So Roosevelt decided to get what hewanted through a form of passive aggression.In the months leading up to the Democratic Convention, which was tochoose which candidate the party would run in the race, Roosevelt repeatedly stated his lack of interest in a third term. He also actively encouraged others inthe party to seek the nomination to replace him. At the same time, he carefullycrafted his language so that he never completely closed the door on runninghimself, and he pushed enough candidates into the nomination race that nosingle one of them could come to the convention as the favorite. Then, as theconvention opened, Roosevelt withdrew from the scene, making his largepresence known by his absence: without him the proceedings were incomparablydull. Reports came back to him that people on the floor were beginning toclamor for him to appear. Letting that desire reach its peak, the president thenhad his friend Senator Alben Barkley insert into his own convention speech amessage from Roosevelt: "The president has never had, and has not today, anydesire or purpose to continue in the office of president, to be a candidate for thatoffice, or to be nominated by the convention for that office." After a moment ofsilence, the convention floor began to ring with the delegates' cry: "WE WANTROOSEVELT!" The appeal went on for an hour. The next day the delegateswere to vote, and chants of "ROOSEVELT!" again filled the hall. The president'sname was entered for the nomination, and he won by a landslide on the firstballot.It is not an enemy who taunts me--then I could bear it; it is not an adversarywho deals insolently with me--then I could hide from him. But it is you, myequal, my companion, my familiar friend....... My companion stretched out hishand against his friends, he violated his covenant. His speech was smootherthan butter, yet war was in his heart; his words were softer than oil, yet theywere drawn swords.PSALMS, 55:12-15, 20-21Remember: it is never wise to seem too eager for power, wealth, or fame.Your ambition may carry you to the top, but you will not be liked and will findyour unpopularity a problem. Better to disguise your maneuvers for power: youdo not want it but have found it forced upon you. Being passive and makingothers come to you is a brilliant form of aggression.Subtle acts of sabotage can work wonders in the passive-aggressive strategybecause you can camouflage them under your friendly, compliant front. That washow the film director Alfred Hitchcock would outmaneuver the meddlesomeproducer David O. Selznick, who used to alter the script to his liking, then showup on set to make sure it was shot the way he wanted it. On these occasionsHitchcock might arrange for the camera to malfunction or let it run without anyfilm in it--by the time Selznick saw the edit, reshooting would be expensive and impossible. Meanwhile the director would make a show of being happy to seeSelznick on set and bewildered if the camera didn't roll or