key battles on land and at sea.Momentum was clearly on their side.In April 1905, however, Kodama began to see great danger in his ownsuccess. Japan's manpower and resources were limited; Russia's were vast.Kodama convinced the Japanese leaders to consolidate the gains they had madeand sue for peace. The Treaty of Portsmouth, signed later that year, grantedRussia more-than-generous terms, but Japan solidified its position: the Russiansmoved out of Manchuria and Korea and left Port Arthur to Japan. Had theJapanese been carried along by their momentum, they would surely have passedthe culminating point of victory and had all their gains wiped out by theinevitable counterattack.On the other side of the scale, the Americans ended the Gulf War of 1991too soon, allowing much of the Iraqi army to escape its encirclement. That leftSaddam Hussein still strong enough to brutally put down the Shiite and Kurdishuprisings that erupted after his defeat in Kuwait and to hang on to power. Theallied forces were held back from completing the victory by their desire not toappear to be beating up on an Arab nation and by the fear of a power vacuum inIraq. Their failure to finish led to far greater violence in the long run.Imagine that everything you do has a moment of perfection and fruition.Your goal is to end your project there, at such a peak. Succumb to tiredness,boredom, or impatience for the end and you fall short of that peak. Greed anddelusions of grandeur will make you go too far. To conclude at this moment ofperfection, you must have the clearest possible sense of your goals, of what youreally want. You must also command an in-depth knowledge of your resources--how far can you practicably go? This kind of awareness will give you anintuitive feel for the culminating point.CENTCOM's lightning war [Desert Storm] was over. It had been billed as a100-hour blitz, but three years later it was still an unfinished war. RecalledGordon Brown, the foreign service officer who served as Schwarzkopf's chief foreign policy advisor at CENTCOM, "We never did have a plan to terminatethe war."THE GENERAL'S WAR: THE INSIDE STORY OF THE CONFLICT IN THEGULF, MICHAEL R. GORDON AND GENERAL BERNARD E.TRAINOR, 1995Endings in purely social relationships demand a sense of the culminatingpoint as much as those in war. A conversation or story that goes on too longalways ends badly. Overstaying your welcome, boring people with yourpresence, is the deepest failing: you should leave them wanting more of you, notless. You can accomplish this by bringing the conversation or encounter to anend a moment before the other side expects it. Leave too soon and you may seemtimid or rude, but do your departure right, at the peak of enjoyment andliveliness (the culminating point), and you create a devastatingly positiveafterglow. People will still be thinking of you long after you are gone. In general,it is always best to end with energy and flair, on a high note.Victory and defeat are what you make of them; it is how you deal with themthat matters. Since