of their focus, and the degree to which they were open to instruction.Without ever having to say a word, he could alter their moods and focus by theintensity of the mitt work he did with them.Having trained as a fighter since he was six years old, Roach had a feel forevery square inch of the ring. With his eyes closed he could gauge exactly wherehe stood in the ring at any moment. Training his fighters for hours with the mittwork, he could imprint into them his own sixth sense for the space itself,deliberately maneuvering them into bad positions so they could feel in advancehow they were approaching such a dangerous space. In the same way, he wouldimpart to them several ways to avoid such dead positions.One day, as he was studying a video of an opposing fighter, he had anepiphany—his way of watching videos was all wrong. In general, he wouldfocus on a fighter’s style, which is something boxers can control and alter forstrategic purposes. This suddenly seemed like a superficial way of studying theopponent. A far better strategy would be to look for their habits or tics, thethings they couldn’t control no matter how hard they tried. Every fighter hassuch tics—they are signs of something deeply wired into their rhythms—andthey translate into potential weaknesses. Discovering these tics and habits wouldgive Roach a much deeper read on the opponent, cutting to his psyche and to hisheart. heart.He began to look for signs of this in the tapes he watched, and in thebeginning it would take him several days to see anything. But in the course ofwatching so many hours on the opposing fighter, he would get a feel for hisways of moving and thinking. Eventually, he would find the habit he waslooking for—for instance, a slight motion of the head that always foreshadoweda particular punch. Now that he had found it, he would see it everywhere on thetapes. After doing this for many different fights over several years, he developeda feel for identifying such tics much more quickly.Based on these discoveries, he would craft a complete strategy that had built-in flexibility. Depending on what the opponent showed in the first round, Roachwould have ready several options for his own fighter that would surprise andupset the opponent, keeping him on his heels and in react mode. His strategywould encompass the entire fight. If necessary, his own fighter could sacrifice around or two without ever losing control of the overall dynamic. Now, in themitt work, he would go over the strategy endlessly. Carefully mimicking the ticsand rhythms of the opponent he had come to know so well, he could show hisfighters how to mercilessly take advantage of their habits and weaknesses; hewould go over the various options to adopt, depending on what the opponentrevealed in the first round. By the time the fight itself approached, his fighterswould feel as if they had already fought and destroyed this opponent, havingfaced Roach so many times in preparation.During the progress of the fights themselves, Roach