the gold they had, return to Cuba, and come back laterwith an army. Why stay in this forbidding land, with its diseases and its lack ofcreature comforts, when they were so heavily outnumbered? Why not sail forCuba, back home where their farms, their wives, and the good life awaited them?Cortes did what he could with these troublemakers, bribing some, keeping aclose eye on others. Meanwhile he worked to build a strong enough rapport withthe rest of his men that the grumblers could do no harm. All seemed well untilthe night of July 30, when Cortes was awoken by a Spanish sailor who, beggingfor mercy, confessed that he had joined in a plot to steal a ship and return thatvery evening to Cuba, where the conspirators would tell Velazquez about Cortes's goal of conquering Mexico on his own.Meditation on inevitable death should be performed daily. Every day whenone's body and mind are at peace, one should meditate upon being rippedapart by arrows, rifles, spears and swords, being carried away by surgingwaves, being thrown into the midst of a great fire, bring struck by lightning,being shaken to death by a great earthquake, falling from thousand-foot cliffs,dying of disease or committing seppuku at the death of one's master. Andevery day without fail one should consider himself as dead.HAGAKURE: THE BOOK OF THE SAMURAI, YAMAMOTOTSUNETOMO, 1659-1720Cortes sensed that this was the decisive moment of the expedition. He couldeasily squash the conspiracy, but there would be others. His men were a roughlot, and their minds were on gold, Cuba, their families--anything but fighting theAztecs. He could not conquer an empire with men so divided and untrustworthy,but how to fill them with the energy and focus for the immense task he faced?Thinking this through, he decided to take swift action. He seized the conspiratorsand had the two ringleaders hanged. Next, he bribed his pilots to bore holes in allof the ships and then announce that worms had eaten through the boards of thevessels, making them unseaworthy.Pretending to be upset at the news, Cortes ordered what was salvageablefrom the ships to be taken ashore and then the hulls to be sunk. The pilotscomplied, but not enough holes had been bored, and only five of the ships wentdown. The story of the worms was plausible enough, and the soldiers acceptedthe news of the five ships with equanimity. But when a few days later more shipswere run aground and only one was left afloat, it was clear to them that Corteshad arranged the whole thing. When he called a meeting, their mood wasmutinous and murderous.This was no time for subtlety. Cortes addressed his men: he was responsiblefor the disaster, he admitted; he had ordered it done, but now there was noturning back. They could hang him, but they were surrounded by hostile Indiansand had no ships; divided and leaderless, they would perish. The only alternativewas to follow him to Tenochtitlan. Only by conquering the Aztecs, by becominglords of Mexico, could they get back to Cuba alive. To reach Tenochtitlan