there except material for scorn. xlix Observation and Judgment. A man with these rules things, not they him. He sounds at once the profoundest depths; he is a phrenologist by means of physiognomy . On seeing a person he understands him and judges of his inmost nature. From a few observations he deciphers the most hidden recesses of his nature. Keen observation, subtile insight, judicious inference: with these he discovers, notices, grasps, and comprehends everything. l Never lose Self-respect, or be too familiar with oneself. Let your own right feeling be the true standard of your rectitude, and owe more to the strictness of your own self-judgment than to all external sanctions. Leave oﬀ anything unseemly more from regard for your own self-respect than from fear of external authority . Pay regard to that and there is no need of Seneca's imaginary tutor. li Know how to Choose well. Most of life depends thereon. It needs good taste and correct judgment, for which neither intellect nor study suﬃces. To be choice, you must choose, and for this two things are needed: to be able to choose at all, and then to choose the best. There are many men of fecund and subtle mind, of keen judgment, of much learning, and of great observation who yet are at a loss when they come to choose. They always take the worst as if they had tried to go wrong. Thus this is one of the greatest gifts from above. lii Never be put out. 'Tis a great aim of prudence never to be embarrassed. It is the sign of a real man. of a noble heart, for magnanimity is not easily put out. The passions are the humours of the soul, and every excess in them weakens prudence; if they overﬂow through the mouth, the reputation will be in danger. Let a man therefore be so much and so great a master over himself that neither in the most fortunate nor in the most adverse circumstances can anything cause his reputation injury by disturbing his self-possession, but rather enhance it by showing his superiority . liii Diligent and Intelligent. Diligence promptly executes what intelligence slowly excogitates. Hurry is the failing of fools; they know not the crucial point and set to work without preparation. On the other hand, the wise more often fail from procrastination; foresight begets deliberation, and remiss action often nulliﬁes prompt judgment. Celerity is the mother of good fortune. He has done much who leaves nothing over till to-morrow . Festina lente is a royal motto. liv Know how to show your T eeth. Even hares can pull the mane of a dead lion. There is no joke about courage. Give way to the ﬁrst and you must yield to the second, and so on till the last, and to gain your point at last costs as much trouble as would have gained much more at ﬁrst. Moral courage exceeds physical; it should be like a sword kept ready