seen as a means for making money so we can enjoy that second life that welead. Even if we derive some satisfaction from our careers we still tend tocompartmentalize our lives in this way. This is a depressing attitude, because inthe end we spend a substantial part of our waking life at work. If we experiencethis time as something to get through on the way to real pleasure, then our hoursat work represent a tragic waste of the short time we have to live.Instead you want to see your work as something more inspiring, as part ofyour vocation. The word “vocation” comes from the Latin meaning to call or tobe called. Its use in relation to work began in early Christianity—certain peoplewere called to a life in the church; that was their vocation. They could recognizethis literally by hearing a voice from God, who had chosen them for thisprofession. Over time, the word became secularized, referring to any work orstudy that a person felt was suited to his or her interests, particularly a manualcraft. It is time, however, that we return to the original meaning of the word, forit comes much closer to the idea of a Life’s Task and mastery.The voice in this case that is calling you is not necessarily coming from God,but from deep within. It emanates from your individuality. It tells you whichactivities suit your character. And at a certain point, it calls you to a particularform of work or career. Your work then is something connected deeply to whoyou are, not a separate compartment in your life. You develop then a sense ofyour vocation.Finally, you must see your career or vocational path more as a journey withtwists and turns rather than a straight line. You begin by choosing a field orposition that roughly corresponds to your inclinations. This initial position offersyou room to maneuver and important skills to learn. You don’t want to start withsomething too lofty, too ambitious—you need to make a living and establishsome confidence. Once on this path you discover certain side routes that attractyou, while other aspects of this field leave you cold. You adjust and perhaps move to a related field, continuing to learn more about yourself, but alwaysexpanding off your skill base. Like Leonardo, you take what you do for othersand make it your own.Eventually, you will hit upon a particular field, niche, or opportunity thatsuits you perfectly. You will recognize it when you find it because it will sparkthat childlike sense of wonder and excitement; it will feel right. Once found,everything will fall into place. You will learn more quickly and more deeply.Your skill level will reach a point where you will be able to claim yourindependence from within the group you work for and move out on your own. Ina world in which there is so much we cannot control, this will bring you theultimate form of power. You will determine your circumstances. As your ownMaster, you will no longer be subject to the whims of tyrannical