others with shields andassegais." Lieutenant Edward Hutton of the 60th left a rather more completedescription of the Zulu army deploying for the attack at Gingindlovu: "Thedark masses of men, in open order and under admirable discipline, followedeach other in quick succession, running at a steady pace through the longgrass. Having moved steadily round so as exactly to face our front, the largerportion of the Zulus broke into three lines, in knots and groups of from five toten men, and advanced towards us.... [They] continued to advance, still at arun, until they were about 800 yards from us, when they began to open fire. Inspite of the excitement of the moment we could not but admire the perfectmanner in which these Zulus skirmished. A knot of five or six would rise anddart through the long grass, dodging from side to side with heads down, riflesand shields kept low and out of sight. They would then suddenly sink into thelong grass, and nothing but puffs of curling smoke would show theirwhereabouts. Then they advance again...." The speed of this final advancewas terrifying. When the British gave the order to cease firing and fall backat Isandlwana, the Zulus were pinned down some two or three hundred yardsfrom the British position. Lieutenant Curling of the Artillery noted that in thetime it took for his experienced men to limber his guns, the Zulus had rushedin so quickly that one gunner had actually been stabbed as he mounted theaxle-tree seat. A Zulu veteran of the battle, uMhoti of the uKhandempemvu,thought the final charge so swift that "like a flame the whole Zulu forcesprang to its feet and darted upon them."THE ANATOMY OF THE ZULU ARMY, IAN KNIGHT, 1995Durnford managed to get his men back into camp. The British weresurrounded, but they closed ranks and fired away, killing scores of Zulus andkeeping them at bay. It was like target practice: as Durnford had predicted, theirsuperior weaponry was making the difference. He looked around; the fight hadturned into a stalemate, and his soldiers were responding with relativeconfidence. Almost imperceptibly, though, Durnford noticed a slight slackening in their fire. Soldiers were running out of ammunition, and in the time it tookthem to open a new crate and reload, the Zulus would tighten the circle and awave of fear would ripple through the men as here and there a soldier in the frontlines would be impaled. The Zulus fought with an intensity the British had neverseen; rushing forward as if bullets could not harm them, they seemed to be in atrance.Suddenly, sensing the turning point in the battle, the Zulus began to rattletheir spears against their shields and emit their war cry: "Usuthu!" It was aterrifying din. At the northern end of the camp, a group of British soldiers gaveway--just a few, panicking at the sight and sound of the Zulus, now only a fewyards distant, but the Zulus poured through the gap. As if on cue, those in thecircle between the two horns rained spears on the British, killing