He would also owe hispromotion exclusively to Hitler.In the years to come, Hitler would have reason to feel proud of his choice.Canaris rigorously reorganized the Abwehr and extended its spy networksthroughout Europe. Then, in May 1940, he provided exceptional intelligence forthe blitzkrieg invasion of France and the Low Countries early in World War II.And so, in the summer of that same year, Hitler gave Canaris his most importanttask to date: providing intelligence for Operation Sealion, a plan to conquerEngland. After the blitzkrieg and the evacuation of the Allied army at Dunkirk,the British seemed deeply vulnerable, and knocking them out of the war at thispoint would ensure Hitler's conquest of Europe.A few weeks into the job, however, Canaris reported that the Germans hadunderestimated the size of the English army and air force. Sealion would requireresources much larger than the Fuhrer had anticipated; unless Hitler was willingto commit many more troops, it could turn into a mess. This was highlydisappointing news for Hitler, who had wanted to knock out England in onequick blow. With his eye on an imminent invasion of Russia, he was unwilling tocommit large numbers to Sealion or to spend years subduing the British. Havingcome to trust Canaris, he abandoned the planned invasion. That same summer General Alfred Jodl came up with a brilliant plan todamage England in another way: using Spain as a base of operations, he wouldinvade the British-owned island of Gibraltar, cutting off England's sea routesthrough the Mediterranean and the Suez Canal to its empire in India and pointseast--a disastrous blow. But the Germans would have to act fast, before theEnglish caught on to the threat. Excited by the prospect of ruining England inthis indirect way, Hitler once again asked Canaris to assess the plan. The Abwehrchief went to Spain, studied the situation, and reported back. The moment aGerman army moved into Spain, he said, the English would see the plan, andGibraltar had elaborate defenses. The Germans would also need the cooperationof Francisco Franco, dictator of Spain, who Canaris believed would not besufficiently helpful. In short: Gibraltar was not worth the effort.There were many around Hitler who believed that taking Gibraltar waseminently realizable and could mean overall victory in the war against Britain.Shocked at Canaris's report, they vocally expressed their doubts about theintelligence he had been providing all along. His enigmatic nature--he spokelittle and was impossible to read--only fueled their suspicions that he was not tobe trusted. Hitler heard his staff out, but a meeting with Generalissimo Franco todiscuss the Gibraltar plan indirectly corroborated everything Canaris had said.Franco was difficult and made all kinds of silly demands; the Spanish would beimpossible to deal with; the logistics were too complicated. Hitler quickly lostinterest in Jodl's plan.In the years that followed, German officials in increasing numbers wouldcome to suspect Canaris of disloyalty to the Third Reich, but no one could pinanything concrete on him. And Hitler himself had great faith in the Abwehr chiefand sent him on critical top-secret missions. One such assignment occurred inthe summer of 1943,