trainer.To Roach, the sport was changing. Fighters had become faster, but trainerssuch as Futch still promoted a rather static style of boxing that did not exploitthese changes. Slowly, Roach began to experiment with the whole trainingdynamic. He expanded the mitt work into something larger, a simulation of afight that could go on for several rounds. This allowed him to get closer to hisfighters, to literally feel their full arsenal of punches over time, to see how theymoved in the ring. He began to study tapes of opponents, looking for any kind ofpattern or weakness in their style. He would devise a strategy around thisweakness and go over it with his boxers in the mitt work. Interacting so closelywith his fighters, he would develop a different kind of rapport than what he hadwith Futch—more visceral and connected. But no matter the boxer, thesemoments of connection would inevitably fade in and out. As they improved, thefighters would begin to tune him out, feeling like they already knew enough.Their egos would get in the way and they would stop learning. Then, in 2001, an entirely different kind of fighter came through the doors ofRoach’s gym in Hollywood, California. His name was Manny Pacquiao, a 122-pound left-handed featherweight fighter, who had had some success in his nativePhilippines but was looking for a trainer in the States, someone who couldelevate his game to another level. Many trainers had already passed on Pacquiao—they watched him work out and spar, and he was impressive, but there was nomoney to be made from someone in such a lightweight division.Roach, however, was a different breed of trainer—he immediately went tomitt work with Pacquiao, and from the first punch he knew something wasdifferent about this fighter. It had an explosive, intense quality, a snap unlike anyanother fighter’s. The other trainers had only watched and could not feel what henow felt. After one round Roach was certain he had found the boxer he hadalways been looking to train, one who could help initiate the new style of boxinghe wanted to introduce. Pacquiao was equally impressed.To Roach, Pacquiao had the material to be an unbeatable fighter, but he wassomewhat one-dimensional: he had a great left hand and not much else. He wasconstantly looking for the knockout blow, to the exclusion of everything else.Roach’s goal was to transform Pacquiao into a multi-dimensional beast in thering. He began with heavy mitt practice, trying to develop a powerful right handand more fluid footwork. What immediately struck him was the intensity withwhich Pacquiao focused on his instructions and how quickly he caught on. Hewas eminently teachable, and so the progress was more rapid than it had everbeen with any other fighter. Pacquiao seemed to never tire of training or toworry about overdoing it. Roach kept waiting for the inevitable dynamic inwhich the fighter would begin to tune him out, but this never came. This was aboxer he could work harder and harder. Soon, Pacquiao had developed adevastating right hand, and his footwork could match the speed