most important of all, itmeans gaining influence over the frame of mind of your opponents, adaptingyour maneuvers to their psychological weaknesses.The superior strategist understands that it is impossible to control exactlyhow an enemy will respond to this move or that. To attempt to do so will onlylead to frustration and exhaustion. There is too much in war and in life that isunpredictable. But if the strategist can control the mood and mind-set of hisenemies, it does not matter exactly how they respond to his maneuvers. If he canmake them frightened, panicky, overly aggressive, and angry, he controls thewider scope of their actions and can trap them mentally before cornering themphysically.Control can be aggressive or passive. It can be an immediate push on theenemy, making him back up and lose the initiative. It can be playing possum,getting the enemy to lower his guard, or baiting him into a rash attack. The artistof control weaves both of these into a devastating pattern--hitting, backing off,baiting, overwhelming.This art is infinitely applicable to the battles of everyday life. Many peopletend to play unconscious games of domination or get caught up in trying tocontrol someone else's every move. In trying to manage and determine too much,they exhaust themselves, make mistakes, push people away, and in the end losecontrol of the situation. If you understand and master the art, you will instantlybecome more creative in your approach to influencing and controlling the otherside. By determining people's moods, the pace at which they must move, thestakes involved, you will find that almost anything people do in response to yourmaneuvers will fit into the overall dynamic you have shaped. They may knowthey are being controlled but be helpless to fight it, or they may move in thedirection you desire without realizing it. That is ultimate control.In short, I think like Frederick [the Great] , one should always be the first toattack.NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, 1769-1821 The following are the four basic principles of the art. Keep them on their heels. Before the enemy makes a move, before the elementof chance or the unexpected actions of your opponents can ruin your plans, youmake an aggressive move to seize the initiative. You then keep up a relentlesspressure, exploiting this momentary advantage to the fullest. You do not wait foropportunities to open up; you make them yourself. If you are the weaker side,this will often more than level the playing field. Keeping your enemies on thedefensive and in react mode will have a demoralizing effect on them. Shift the battlefield. An enemy naturally wants to fight you on familiar terrain.Terrain in this sense means all of the details of the battle--the time and place,exactly what is being fought over, who is involved in the struggle, and so on. Bysubtly shifting your enemies into places and situations that are not familiar tothem, you control the dynamic. Without realizing what is happening, youropponents find themselves fighting on your terms. Compel mistakes. Your enemies depend on executing a strategy that plays totheir advantages, that has worked in