both the necessity and the difficulty of such anundertaking when he once defined the beauty of art as "a brief gasp betweenone cliche and another." The connection between the avant-garde and fashionis therefore evident: fashion too is a Penelope's web; fashion too passesthrough the phase of novelty and strangeness, surprise and scandal, beforeabandoning the new forms when they become cliche, kitsch, stereotype.Hence the profound truth of Baudelaire's paradox, which gives to genius thetask of creating stereotypes. And from that follows, by the principle ofcontradiction inherent in the obsessive cult of genius in modern culture, thatthe avant-garde is condemned to conquer, through the influence of fashion,that very popularity it once disdained--and this is the beginning of its end. Infact, this is the inevitable, inexorable destiny of each movement: to rise upagainst the newly outstripped fashion of an old avant-garde and to die whena new fashion, movement, or avant-garde appears.THE THEORY OF THE AVANT-GARDE, RENATO POGGIOLI, 1968The way to be truly unorthodox is to imitate no one, to fight and operateaccording to your own rhythms, adapting strategies to your idiosyncrasies, notthe other way around. Refusing to follow common patterns will make it hard forpeople to guess what you'll do next. You are truly an individual. Yourunorthodox approach may infuriate and upset, but emotional people arevulnerable people over whom you can easily exert power. If your peculiarity isauthentic enough, it will bring you attention and respect--the kind the crowdalways has for the unconventional and extraordinary. 3. Late in 1862, during the American Civil War, General Ulysses S. Grant madeseveral efforts to take the Confederate fortress at Vicksburg. The fortress was ata critical point in the Mississippi River, the lifeline of the South. If Grant's Union army took Vicksburg, it would gain control of the river, cutting the South in half.Victory here could be the turning point of the war. Yet by January 1863 thefortress's commander, General James Pemberton, felt confident he hadweathered the storm. Grant had tried to take the fort from several angles to thenorth and had failed. It seemed that he had exhausted all possibilities and wouldgive up the effort.The fortress was located at the top of a two-hundred-foot escarpment on theriverbank, where any boat that tried to pass was exposed to its heavy artillery. Toits west lay the river and the cliffs. To the north, where Grant was encamped, itwas protected by virtually impassable swamp. Not far east lay the town ofJackson, a railroad hub where supplies and reinforcements could easily bebrought in--and Jackson was firmly in Southern hands, giving the Confederacycontrol of the entire corridor, north and south, on the river's eastern bank.Vicksburg seemed secure from all directions, and the failure of Grant's attacksonly made Pemberton more comfortable. What more could the Northern generaldo? Besides, he was in political hot water among President Abraham Lincoln'senemies, who saw his Vicksburg campaign as a monumental waste of money andmanpower. The newspapers were portraying Grant as an incompetent drunk. Thepressure was tremendous for him to give it up and retreat back to