rid himself of histerrible naïveté and bring some rationality to his social relations.After more than a year and a half of work in London, Franklin finally savedenough money for his return journey to the colonies, and in 1727 he foundhimself back in Philadelphia, looking once more for work. In the midst of hissearch, his former employer, Samuel Keimer, surprised him by offering Franklina nice position in the printing shop—he would be in charge of the staff and a nice position in the printing shop—he would be in charge of the staff andtraining the others Keimer had recently hired as part of his expanding business.For this he would receive a nice yearly salary. Franklin accepted, but almostfrom the beginning he could sense something was not right. And so, as he hadpromised himself, he took a step back and calmly reviewed the facts.He had five men to train, but once he accomplished this task there would belittle work left over for him. Keimer himself had been acting strangely—muchfriendlier than usual. He was an insecure and prickly gentleman, and thisfriendly front did not fit him. Imagining the situation from Keimer’s perspective,he could sense that he must have greatly resented Franklin’s sudden departurefor London, leaving him in the lurch. He must have seen Franklin as a youngwhippersnapper who needed his comeuppance. He was not the type to discussthis with anyone, but would seethe from within and scheme on his own.Thinking in this way, Keimer’s intentions became clear to him: he was planningto get Franklin to impart his extensive knowledge of the business to the newemployees, then fire him. This would be his revenge.Certain he had read this correctly, he decided to quietly turn the tables. Heused his new managerial position to build relationships with customers and toconnect with successful merchants in the area. He experimented with some newmanufacturing methods he had learned in England. When Keimer was awayfrom the shop, he taught himself new skills such as engraving and ink-making.He paid close attention to his pupils, and carefully cultivated one of them to be afirst-rate assistant. And just when he suspected that Keimer was about to firehim, he left and set up his own shop—with financial backing, greater knowledgeof the business, a solid base of customers who would follow him everywhere,and a first-rate assistant whom he had trained. In executing this strategy,Franklin noticed how free he was from any feelings of bitterness or anger towardKeimer. It was all maneuvers on a chessboard, and by thinking inside Keimer hewas able to play the game to perfection, with a clear and level head.Over the ensuing years, Franklin’s printing business prospered. He became ahighly successful newspaper publisher, a best-selling writer, a scientistrenowned for his experiments with electricity, and an inventor of such things asthe Franklin stove (and later in his life that of the lightning rod, bifocal glasses,and so on). As an increasingly prominent member of the Philadelphiacommunity, in 1736 he decided it was time to take his career further and enterpolitics, becoming a delegate to Pennsylvania’s