aided them in the harsh struggle for survival. They thought mostly interms of visual images, and became highly adept at noticing patterns anddiscerning important details in their environment. Roaming over vast spaces,they developed the ability to think spatially and learned how to orient themselvesin varied landscapes, using landmarks and the position of the sun. They wereable to think in mechanical terms, and became supremely skilled at coordinating the hand and eye in making things.With the invention of language, the intellectual powers of our ancestors werevastly enhanced. Thinking in words, they could imagine more possibilities in theworld around them, which they could then communicate and act on. The humanbrain thus developed along these evolutionary lines as a multiuse, immenselyflexible instrument that is able to think on various levels, combining many formsof intelligence with all of the senses. But somewhere along the way a problemdeveloped. We slowly lost our previous flexibility and became largely dependenton words for our thinking. In the process, we lost our connection to the senses—sight, smell, touch—that once played such a vital role in our intelligence.Language is a system largely designed for social communication. It is based onconventions that everyone can agree upon. It is somewhat rigid and stable, sothat it allows us to communicate with minimum friction. But when it comes tothe incredible complexity and fluidity of life, it can often fail us.The grammar of language locks us into certain forms of logic and ways ofthinking. As the writer Sidney Hook put it, “When Aristotle drew up his table ofcategories which to him represented the grammar of existence, he was reallyprojecting the grammar of the Greek language on the cosmos.” Linguists haveenumerated the high number of concepts that have no particular word to describethem in the English language. If there are no words for certain concepts, we tendto not think of them. And so language is a tool that is often too tight andconstricting, compared to the multilayered powers of intelligence we naturallypossess.In the last few hundred years, with the rapid development of the sciences,technology, and the arts, we humans have had to use our brains to solveincreasingly complex problems, and those who are truly creative have developedthe ability to think beyond language, to access the lower chambers ofconsciousness, to revert to those primal forms of intelligence that served us formillions of years.According to the great mathematician Jacques Hadamard, mostmathematicians think in terms of images, creating a visual equivalent of thetheorem they are trying to work out. Michael Faraday was a powerful visualthinker. When he came up with the idea of electromagnetic lines of force,anticipating the field theories of the twentieth century, he saw them literally inhis mind’s eye before he wrote about them. The structure of the periodic tablecame to the chemist Dmitry Mendeleyev in a dream, where he literally saw theelements laid out before his eyes in a visual scheme. The list of great thinkerswho relied upon images is enormous, and perhaps the greatest of them all wasAlbert Einstein, who once wrote, “The words of