board metand voted by a slim margin not to show the piece. Arensberg and Duchampimmediately resigned. In newspaper articles reporting this controversy, theobject was politely referred to as a "bathroom fixture." It piqued a lot ofcuriosity, and an air of mystery pervaded the entire affair.At the time of the exhibition, Duchamp was one of a group of artists whopublished a magazine called The Blind Man. The magazine's second issueincluded a photograph of Fountain taken by the great photographer AlfredStieglitz, who lit the urinal beautifully so that a shadow fell over it like a kind ofveil, giving it a slightly religious appearance, along with something vaguelysexual in the arguably vaginal shape of the urinal when laid on its back. TheBlind Man also ran an editorial, "The Richard Mutt Case," that defended thework and criticized its exclusion from the show: "Mr. Mutt's fountain is notimmoral...no more than a bathtub is immoral.... Whether Mr. Mutt with his ownhands made the fountain or not has no importance. He CHOSE it. He took anordinary article of life, placed it so that its useful significance disappeared underthe new title and point of view--created a new thought for that object."It soon became clear that the "creator" of Fountain was none other thanDuchamp. And over the years the work began to assume a life of its own, eventhough it mysteriously disappeared from Stieglitz's studio and was never foundagain. For some reason the photograph and the story of Fountain inspiredendless ideas about art and artmaking. The work itself had strange powers toshock and compel. In 1953 the Sidney Janis Gallery, New York, was authorizedby Duchamp to exhibit a replica of Fountain over its entrance door, a sprig ofmistletoe emerging from the bowl. Soon more replicas were appearing ingalleries, retrospective exhibitions of Duchamp's work, and museum collections.Fountain became a fetish object, something to collect. Replicas of it have sold for over $1 million.Everyone seems to see what they want to see in the piece. Shown inmuseums, it often still outrages the public, some disturbed by the urinal itself,others by its presentation as art. Critics have written extended articles on theurinal, with all kinds of interpretations: in staging Fountain, Duchamp wasurinating on the art world; he was playing with notions of gender; the piece is anelaborate verbal pun; on and on. What some of the organizers of the 1917 showbelieved to be merely an indecent object unworthy of being considered art hassomehow turned into one of the most controversial, scandalous, and analyzedworks of the twentieth century.InterpretationThroughout the twentieth century, many artists wielded influence by beingunconventional: the Dadaists, the surrealists, Pablo Picasso, Salvador Dali--thelist is long. But of all of them, it is Marcel Duchamp who has probably had thegreatest impact on modern art, and what he called his "readymades" are perhapsthe most influential of all his works. The readymades are everyday objects--sometimes exactly as they were made (a snow shovel, a bottle rack), sometimesslightly altered (the urinal laid on its back, the mustache and goatee drawn on areproduction of The Mona