their lives in which all of their future powers were in development, likethe chrysalis of a butterfly. This part of their lives—a largely self-directedapprenticeship that lasts some five to ten years—receives little attention becauseit does not contain stories of great achievement or discovery. Often in theirApprenticeship Phase, these types are not yet much different from anyone else.Under the surface, however, their minds are transforming in ways we cannot seebut contain all of the seeds of their future success.Much of how such Masters navigate this phase comes from an intuitive graspof what is most important and essential for their development, but in studyingwhat they did right we can learn some invaluable lessons for ourselves. In fact, aclose examination of their lives reveals a pattern that transcends their variousfields, indicating a kind of Ideal Apprenticeship for mastery. And to grasp thispattern, to follow it in our own ways, we must understand something about thevery idea and necessity for passing through an apprenticeship.In childhood we are inculcated in culture through a long period ofdependency—far longer than any other animal. During this period we learnlanguage, writing, math, and reasoning skills, along with a few others. Much ofthis happens under the watchful and loving guidance of parents and teachers. Aswe get older, greater emphasis is placed on book learning—absorbing as muchinformation as possible about various subjects. Such knowledge of history,science, or literature is abstract, and the process of learning largely involvespassive absorption. At the end of this process (usually somewhere between theages of eighteen and twenty-five) we are then thrust into the cold, harsh workworld to fend for ourselves.When we emerge from the youthful state of dependency, we are not reallyready to handle the transition to an entirely independent phase. We carry with usthe habit of learning from books or teachers, which is largely unsuited for thepractical, self-directed phase of life that comes next. We tend to be somewhatsocially naïve and unprepared for the political games people play. Still uncertainas to our identity, we think that what matters in the work world is gaining attention and making friends. And these misconceptions and naïveté are brutallyexposed in the light of the real world.If we adjust over time, we might eventually find our way; but if we make toomany mistakes, we create endless problems for ourselves. We spend too muchtime entangled in emotional issues, and we never quite have enough detachmentto reflect and learn from our experiences. The apprenticeship, by its very nature,must be conducted by each individual in his or her own way. To follow preciselythe lead of others or advice from a book is self-defeating. This is the phase in lifein which we finally declare our independence and establish who we are. But forthis second education in our lives, so critical to our future success, there aresome powerful and essential lessons that we all can benefit from, that can guideus away from common mistakes and save us valuable time.These lessons transcend all fields and historical periods because they areconnected to something essential about human psychology