made him look weak and unrulerlikeand left him surrounded by enemies. Macnaghten would not listen.The rebellion spread, and Macnaghten now had to confront the fact that hedid not have the manpower to put down a general uprising. But why should hepanic? The Afghans and their leaders were naive; he would regain the upperhand through intrigue and cleverness. To that end, Macnaghten publiclynegotiated an agreement whereby British troops and citizens would leaveAfghanistan, in exchange for which the Afghans would supply the retreatingBritish with food. Privately, though, Macnaghten made it known to a few keychiefs that he was willing to make one of them the country's vizier--and loadwith him money--in exchange for putting down the rebellion and allowing theEnglish to stay.Bait.--"Everyone has his price"--this is not true. But there surely exists foreveryone a bait he cannot help taking. Thus to win many people over to acause one needs only to put on it a gloss of philanthropy, nobility,charitableness, self-sacrifice--and on to what cause can one not put it?--:these are the sweetmeats and dainties for their soul; others have others.HUMAN, ALL TOO HUMAN, FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1886The chief of the eastern Ghilzyes, Akbar Khan, responded to this offer, andon December 23, 1841, Macnaghten rode out for a private meeting with him toseal the bargain. After exchanging greetings Akbar asked Macnaghten if hewanted to go ahead with the treachery they were planning. Thrilled to haveturned the situation around, Macnaghten cheerily answered that he did. Withouta word of explanation, Akbar signaled his men to grab Macnaghten and throwhim in prison--he had no intention of betraying the other chiefs. Along the way a mob developed, caught hold of the unfortunate envoy, and with a fury built upover years of humiliation literally tore him to pieces. His limbs and head wereparaded through the streets of Kabul, and his torso was hung from a meat hookin the bazaar.In a matter of days, everything unraveled. The remaining British troops--some 4,500 of them, along with 12,000 camp followers--were forced to agree toan immediate retreat from Afghanistan, despite the bitter winter weather. TheAfghans were to keep the retreating army supplied but did not do so. Certain thatthe British would never leave unless forced to, they harassed them relentlessly intheir retreat. Civilians and soldiers alike quickly perished in the snow.On January 13, British forces at the fort in Jalalabad saw a single horsestruggling toward the gates. Its half-dead rider, Dr. William Brydon, was the solesurvivor of the British army's doomed invasion of Afghanistan. Interpretation The knowledge that would have averted the catastrophe was atMacnaghten's fingertips long before he launched the expedition. Englishmen andIndians who had lived in Afghanistan could have told him that the Afghanpeople were among the proudest and most independent on the planet. To themthe image of foreign troops marching into Kabul would constitute anunforgivable humiliation. On top of that, they were not a people yearning forpeace, prosperity, and reconciliation. In fact, they saw strife and confrontation asa healthy way of life.Macnaghten had the information but refused to see it. Instead