of argument. By quoting their words and ideas back at them in slightly grotesque form, you neutralize their verbalstrengths and leave them self-doubting and insecure. 3. Toward the middle of the sixteenth century, a young samurai, whose namehistory has left behind, developed a novel way of fighting: he could wield twoswords with equal dexterity in his right and left hands at the same time. Thistechnique was formidable, and he was eager to use it to make a name forhimself, so he decided to challenge the most famous swordsman of his time,Tsukahara Bokuden, to a duel. Bokuden was now middle-aged and insemiretirement. He answered the young man's challenge with a letter: a samuraiwho could use a sword in his left hand with the same effectiveness as his righthad an unfair advantage. The young swordsman could not understand what hemeant. "If you think my using a sword with my left is unfair," he wrote back,"renounce the match." Instead Bokuden sent off ten more letters, each repeatingin slightly different words the charge about the left hand. Each letter only madethe challenger more annoyed. Finally, however, Bokuden agreed to fight.The young samurai was used to fighting on instinct and with great speed, butas the duel began, he could not stop thinking about his left hand and Bokuden'sfear of it. With his left hand--he found himself calculating--he would stab here,slash there. His left hand could not fail; it seemed possessed of its own power....Then, suddenly, out of nowhere, Bokuden's sword cut deeply across thechallenger's right arm. The duel was over. The young samurai recoveredphysically, but his mind was forever unhinged: he could not fight by instinctanymore. He thought too much, and he soon gave up the sword.In 1605, Genzaemon, head of the renowned Yoshioka family of Kyotoswordsmen, received the strangest challenge of his life. An unknown twenty-one-year-old samurai named Miyamoto Musashi, dressed like a beggar in dirty,ragged clothes, challenged him to a duel so haughtily that Musashi must havethought himself the more famous swordsman. Genzaemon did not feel he had topay attention to this youth; a man as illustrious as he could not go through lifeaccepting challenges from every bumpkin who crossed his path. Yet somethingabout Musashi's arrogance got under his skin. Genzaemon would enjoy teachingthis youth a lesson. The duel was set for five o'clock the following morning in asuburban field.Genzaemon arrived at the appointed time, accompanied by his students.Musashi was not there. Minutes turned into an hour. The young man hadprobably gotten cold feet and skipped town. Genzaemon sent a student to look for the young samurai at the inn where he was staying. The student soonreturned: Musashi, he reported, had been asleep when he arrived and, whenawakened, had rather impertinently ordered him to send Genzaemon his regardsand say he would be there shortly. Genzaemon was furious and began to pace thefield. And Musashi still took his time. It was two more hours before he appearedin the distance, sauntering toward them across the field. He was wearing, too, ascarlet headband, not the traditional