But agents of Czar Nicholas I had infiltrated many ofthese groups, and reports were written about the wild things being discussed atPetrashevsky's house, including talk of inciting peasant revolts. Dostoyevskywas fervent about freeing the serfs, and on April 23, 1849, he and twenty-threeother members of the Petrashevsky group were arrested.After eight months of languishing in jail, the prisoners were awakened onecold morning and told that today they would finally hear their sentences. A fewmonths' exile was the usual punishment for their crime; soon, they thought, theirordeal would be over.They were bundled into carriages and driven through the icy streets of St.Petersburg. Emerging from the carriages into Semyonovsky Square, they weregreeted by a priest; behind him they could see rows of soldiers and, behind thesoldiers, thousands of spectators. They were led toward a scaffold covered inblack cloth at the center of the square. In front of the scaffold were three posts,and to the side was a line of carts laden with coffins.Lord Naoshige said, "The Way of the Samurai is in desperateness. Ten men ormore cannot kill such a man. Common sense will not accomplish great things.Simply become insane and desperate."HAGAKURE: THE BOOK OF THE SAMURAI, YAMAMOTOTSUNETOMO, 1659-1720Dostoyevsky could not believe what he saw. "It's not possible that they meanto execute us," he whispered to his neighbor. They were marched to the scaffoldand placed in two lines. It was an unbelievably cold day, and the prisoners werewearing the light clothes they'd been arrested in back in April. A drumrollsounded. An officer came forward to read their sentences: "All of the accusedare guilty as charged of intending to overthrow the national order, and aretherefore condemned to death before a firing squad." The prisoners were toostunned to speak. As the officer read out the individual charges and sentences, Dostoyevskyfound himself staring at the golden spire of a nearby church and at the sunlightbouncing off it. The gleams of light disappeared as a cloud passed overhead, andthe thought occurred to him that he was about to pass into darkness just asquickly, and forever. Suddenly he had another thought: If I do not die, if I am notkilled, my life will suddenly seem endless, a whole eternity, each minute acentury. I will take account of everything that passes--I will not waste a secondof life again.The prisoners were given hooded shirts. The priest came forward to readthem their last rites and hear their confessions. They said good-bye to oneanother. The first three to be shot were tied to the posts, and the hoods werepulled over their faces. Dostoyevsky stood in the front, in the next group to go.The soldiers raised their rifles, took aim--and suddenly a carriage came gallopinginto the square. A man got out with an envelope. At the last second, the czar hadcommuted their death sentences.It had long been known, of course, that a man who, through disciplinedtraining, had relinquished any desire or hope for survival and had only onegoal--the destruction of his enemy--could be a redoubtable opponent and atruly formidable fighter who neither