fearin turn gives you confidence and presence of mind. The more conflicts anddifficult situations you put yourself through, the more battle-tested your mindwill be. There was a fox who had never seen a lion. But one day he happened to meetone of these beasts face to face. On this first occasion he was so terrified thathe felt he would die of fear. He encountered him again, and this time he wasalso frightened, but not so much as the first time. But on the third occasionwhen he saw him, he actually plucked up the courage to approach him andbegan to chat. This fable shows that familiarity soothes our fears. FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C.Second, Patton's experience demonstrates the motivating power of a sense ofhonor and dignity. In giving in to fear, in losing your presence of mind, youdisgrace not only yourself, your self-image, and your reputation but yourcompany, your family, your group. You bring down the communal spirit. Being aleader of even the smallest group gives you something to live up to: people arewatching you, judging you, depending on you. To lose your composure wouldmake it hard for you to live with yourself. Be self-reliant. There is nothing worse than feeling dependent on other people.Dependency makes you vulnerable to all kinds of emotions--betrayal,disappointment, frustration--that play havoc with your mental balance.Early in the American Civil War, General Ulysses S. Grant, eventualcommander in chief of the Northern armies, felt his authority slipping. Hissubordinates would pass along inaccurate information on the terrain he wasmarching through; his captains would fail to follow through on his orders; hisgenerals were criticizing his plans. Grant was stoical by nature, but hisdiminished control over his troops led to a diminished control over himself anddrove him to drink.In the words of the ancients, one should make his decisions within the spaceof seven breaths. Lord Takanobu said, "If discrimination is long, it will spoil."Lord Naoshige said, "When matters are done leisurely, seven out of ten willturn out badly. A warrior is a person who does things quickly." When yourmind is going hither and thither, discrimination will never be brought to aconclusion. With an intense, fresh and unde-laying spirit, one will make hisjudgments within the space of seven breaths. It is a matter of beingdetermined and having the spirit to break right through to the other side. HAGAKURE: THE BOOK OF THE SAMURAI, YAMAMOTOTSUNETOMO, 1659-1720Grant had learned his lesson by the time of the Vicksburg campaign, in1862-63. He rode the terrain himself, studying it firsthand. He reviewedintelligence reports himself. He honed the precision of his orders, making itharder for his captains to flout them. And once he had made a decision, he wouldignore his fellow generals' doubts and trust his convictions. To get things done,he came to rely on himself. His feelings of helplessness dissolved, and with themall of the attendant emotions that had ruined his presence of mind.Being self-reliant is critical. To make yourself less dependent on others andso-called experts, you need to expand your repertoire of skills. And you need