boxer Rocky Marciano, "but I'm sure he'll bemore receptive after he's been there with Liston." What worried the experts mostof all was Cassius Clay's unusual fighting style. He was not the typicalheavyweight bruiser: he would dance in place with his hands down at his side; he rarely put his full body into his punches, instead hitting just from the arms;his head was constantly moving, as if he wanted to keep his pretty faceunscathed; he was reluctant to go inside, to brawl and pummel the body--theusual way to wear down a heavyweight. Instead Clay preferred to dance andshuffle, as if his fights were ballet, not boxing. He was too small to be aheavyweight, lacked the requisite killer instinct--the press critique ran on.At the weigh-in on the morning of the bout, everyone was waiting for Clay'susual prefight antics. He exceeded their expectations. When Liston got off thescales, Clay began to shout at him: "Hey, sucker, you're a chump. You've beentricked, chump.... You are too ugly.... I'm going to whup you so bad." Clayjumped and screamed, his whole body shaking, his eyes popping, his voicequivering. He seemed possessed. Was he afraid or downright crazy? For Listonthis was quite simply the last straw. He wanted to kill Clay and shut thechallenger up for good.As they stood in the ring before the opening bell, Liston tried to stare downClay as he had stared down others, giving him the evil eye. But unlike otherboxers Clay stared back. Bobbing up and down in place, he repeated, "Now I'vegot you, chump." The fight began, and Liston charged forward at his prey,throwing a long left jab that missed by a mile. He kept coming, a look of intenseanger on his face--but Clay shuffled back from each punch, even taunting Listonat one point by lowering his hands. He seemed able to anticipate Liston's everymove. And he returned Liston's stare: even after the round ended and both menwere in their corners, his eyes never left his opponent's.The second round was more of the same, except that Liston, instead oflooking murderous, began to look frustrated. The pace was far faster than in anyof his earlier fights, and Clay's head kept bobbing and orbiting in disturbingpatterns. Liston would move in to strike his chin, only to miss or find Clayhitting Liston's chin instead, with a lightning-quick jab that made him wobble onhis feet. At the end of the third round, a flurry of punches came out of nowhereand opened a deep gash under Liston's left eye.Now Clay was the aggressor and Liston was fighting to survive. In the sixthround, he began taking punches from all angles, opening more wounds andmaking Liston look weak and sad. When the bell for the seventh round rang, themighty Liston just sat on his stool and stared--he refused to get up. The fight wasover. The boxing world was stunned: Was it a fluke? Or--since Liston hadseemed to fight as if under some spell, his punches missing, his movements tiredand listless--had he just had an off night? The world