It is no rule of life to prepare for yourself lifelong trouble in order to give a temporary enjoyment to another, however near and dear. Y ou never ought to spoil your own chances to please another who advises and keeps out of the aﬀair, and in all cases where to oblige another involves disobliging yourself, 'tis a standing rule that it is better he should suﬀer now than you afterwards and in vain. lxv Elevated T aste. Y ou can train it like the intellect. Full knowledge whets desire and increases enjoyment. Y ou may know a noble spirit by the elevation of his taste: it must be a great thing that can satisfy a great mind. Big bites for big mouths, lofty things for lofty spirits. Before their judgment the bravest tremble, the most perfect lose conﬁdence. Things of the ﬁrst importance are few; let appreciation be rare. Taste can be imparted by intercourse: great good luck to associate with the highest taste. But do not aﬀect to be dissatisﬁed with everything: 'tis the extreme of folly , and more odious if from aﬀectation than if from Quixotry . Some would have God create another world and other ideals to satisfy their fantastic imagination. lxvi See that Things end well. Some regard more the rigour of the game than the winning of it, but to the world the discredit of the ﬁnal failure does away with any recognition of the previous care. The victor need not explain. The world does not notice the details of the measures employed; but only the good or ill result. Y ou lose nothing if you gain your end. A good end gilds everything, however unsatisfactory the means. Thus at times it is part of the art of life to transgress the rules of the art, if you cannot end well otherwise. lxvii Prefer Callings "en Evidence." Most things depend on the satisfaction of others. Esteem is to excellence what the zephyr is to ﬂowers, the breath of life. There are some callings which gain universal esteem, while others more important are without credit. The former, pursued before the eyes of all, obtain the universal favour; the others, though they are rarer and more valuable, remain obscure and unperceived, honoured but not applauded. Among princes conquerors are the most celebrated, and therefore the kings of Aragon earned such applause as warriors, conquerors, and great men. An able man will prefer callings en evidence which all men know of and utilise, and he thus becomes immortalised by universal suﬀrage. lxviii It is better to help with Intelligence than with Memory . The more as the latter needs only recollection, the former nous. Many persons omit the a propos because it does not occur to them; a friend's advice on such occasions may enable them to see the advantages. 'Tis one of the greatest gifts of mind to be able to oﬀer what is needed at the moment: for want of that many things fail