thinking and acting in the world:the art of grand strategy.In grand strategy you look beyond the moment, beyond your immediatebattles and concerns. You concentrate instead on what you want to achieve downthe line. Controlling the temptation to react to events as they happen, youdetermine each of your actions according to your ultimate goals. You think interms not of individual battles but of a campaign.Alexander owed his novel style of strategizing to his mother and to Aristotle.His mother had given him a sense of destiny and a goal: to rule the knownworld. From the age of three, he could see in his mind's eye the role he wouldplay when he was thirty. From Aristotle he learned the power of controlling hisemotions, seeing things dispassionately, thinking ahead to the consequences ofhis actions.Trace the zigzags of Alexander's maneuvers and you will see their grand-strategic consistency. His quick actions against first Thebes, then Persia, workedpsychically on his soldiers and on his critics. Nothing quiets an army faster thanbattle; Alexander's sudden crusade against the hated Persians was the perfectway to unite the Greeks. Once he was in Persia, though, speed was the wrongtactic. Had Alexander advanced, he would have found himself controlling toomuch land too quickly; running it would have exhausted his resources, and in theensuing power vacuum, enemies would have sprung up everywhere. Better toproceed slowly, to build on what was there, to win hearts and minds. Instead ofwasting money on building a navy, better simply to make the Persian navyunusable. To pay for the kind of extended campaign that would bring long-termsuccess, first seize the rich lands of Egypt. None of Alexander's actions werewasted. Those who saw his plans bear fruit, in ways they themselves had beenentirely unable to predict, thought him a kind of god--and certainly his controlover events deep in the future seemed more godlike than human.There is, however, much difference between the East and the West in culturalheritages, in values, and in ways of thinking. In the Eastern way of thinking,one starts with the whole, takes everything as a whole and proceeds with acomprehensive and intuitive synthesization [combinaton] . In the Western wayof thinking, however, one starts with the parts, takes [divides] a complexmatter into component parts and then deals with them one by one, with an emphasis on logical analysis. Accordingly, Western traditional militarythought advocates a direct military approach with a stress on the use ofarmed forces.THE STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE: SUN ZI & WESTERN APPROACHES TOWAR, CAO SHAN, ED., 1997To become a grand strategist in life, you must follow the path of Alexander.First, clarify your life--decipher your own personal riddle--by determining whatit is you are destined to achieve, the direction in which your skills and talentsseem to push you. Visualize yourself fulfilling this destiny in glorious detail. AsAristotle advised, work to master your emotions and train yourself to thinkahead: "This action will advance me toward my goal, this one will lead menowhere." Guided by these standards, you will be able to stay on course.Ignore the conventional wisdom about what you