for herself as a tennis player, but shewas starting out in the sport rather late in life. To make up for lost time shewould have to undergo an almost impossibly rigorous practice schedule. Shetraveled outside Tokyo for training and so would do her homework on the rideback at night. Often having to stand up in the crowded car, she would crack openher math and physics books and work out the equations. She loved solvingpuzzles, and in doing this homework her mind would become so completelyabsorbed in the problems that she was barely aware of the time passing. In astrange way, it was similar to the sensation she felt on the tennis court—a deepfocus where nothing could distract her.In the few free moments on the train Yoky would think about her future.Science and sports were the two great interests in her life. In them she couldexpress all of the different sides of her character—her love of competing,working with her hands, moving gracefully, analyzing and solving problems. InJapan you had to choose a career that was generally quite specialized. Whatevershe chose would require sacrificing her other interests, which depressed her tono end. One day she daydreamed about inventing a robot that could play tenniswith her. Inventing and playing against such a robot would satisfy all of thedifferent sides of her character, but it was only a dream.Although she had risen through the ranks to become one of the top tennisprospects in Japan, she quickly realized that this was not to be her future. Inpractice, no one could beat her, but in competition she would often freeze up,overthink the situation, and lose to inferior players. She also suffered somedebilitating injuries. She would have to focus on academics and not on sports.After attending a tennis academy in Florida, she convinced her parents to let herstay in the States and apply to the University of California at Berkeley.At Berkeley she could not decide on a major—nothing seemed to quite fither wide-ranging interests. For lack of anything better, she settled on electricalengineering. One day she confided to a professor in her department about heryouthful dream to build a robot to play tennis with her. Much to her surprise theprofessor did not laugh, but instead invited her to join his graduate lab forrobotics. Her work there showed so much promise that she was later admitted tograduate school at MIT, where she joined the artificial-intelligence lab ofrobotics pioneer Rodney Brooks. They were developing a robot with artificialintelligence, and Matsuoka volunteered to design the hand and arms.Ever since she was a child she had pondered her own hands while she was playing tennis or the piano or while scribbling out math equations. The humanhand was a miracle of design. Although this was not exactly sports, she would beworking with her hands to construct the hand. Finding at last something thatsuited a larger range of her interests, she worked night and day on building anew kind of robotic limb, one that possessed as much as possible the delicategrasping power of