thither. In this waythey will be able to bring the whole garrison to hospital in about fourteendays without losing a single man."THE CAMPAIGNS OF NAPOLEON, DAVID G. CHANDLER, 1966Thousands of French soldiers had succumbed to disease and hunger withouta single battle's being fought. The army was strung out along a 500-mile line,parts of which were constantly harassed by small troops of Cossacks onhorseback, sowing terror with their bloodthirsty raids. Napoleon could not allowthe chase to go on any longer--he would march his men to Smolensk and fightthe decisive battle there. Smolensk was a holy city, with great emotionalsignificance to the Russian people. Surely the Russians would fight to defend itrather than let it be destroyed. He knew that if he could only meet the Russiansin battle, he would win.And so the French moved on Smolensk, arriving there in mid-August, their450,000-man attack force reduced to 150,000 and worn down by the intenseheat. Finally, as Napoleon had predicted, the Russians made a stand here--butonly briefly; after several days of fighting, they retreated yet again, leavingbehind a burned and ruined city with nothing in it to feed on or plunder.Napoleon could not understand the Russian people, who seemed to him suicidal--they would destroy their country rather than surrender it.Now he had to decide whether to march on Moscow itself. It might haveseemed wise to wait through the winter at Smolensk, but that would give theczar time to raise a larger army that would prove too hard for Napoleon to handlewith his own depleted forces. The French emperor felt certain the czar would defend Moscow, the very heart and soul of Russia. Once Moscow fell,Alexander would have to sue for peace. So Napoleon marched his haggardtroops still farther east.Now, at last, the Russians turned to face the French in battle, and onSeptember 7 the two armies clashed near the village of Borodino, a mereseventy-five miles from Moscow. Napoleon no longer had enough forces orcavalry to attempt his usual flanking maneuver, so he was forced to attack theenemy head-on. The Russians fought bitterly, harder than any army Napoleonhad ever faced. Even so, after hours of brutal fighting, the Russians retreated yetagain. The road to Moscow lay open. But the Russian army was still intact, andNapoleon's forces had suffered horrific casualties.Seven days later Napoleon's army, now reduced to 100,000 men, straggledinto an undefended Moscow. A French marshal wrote to his wife that theemperor's "joy was overflowing. 'The Russians,' he thinks, 'will sue for peace,and I shall change the face of the world.'" In earlier years, when he had marchedinto Vienna and Berlin, he had been met as a conquering hero, with dignitariesturning over to him the keys to their cities. But Moscow was empty: no citizens,no food. A terrible fire broke out almost immediately and lasted five days; all ofthe city's water pumps had been removed--an elaborate sabotage to makeMoscow still more inhospitable.Napoleon sent letters to the czar, offering generous terms of peace. At firstthe Russians seemed willing to negotiate, but the weeks went by, and