to explore inthe creation itself, and the end result seems lifeless and disappointing. On theother side, artists may start with a loose idea that seems promising, but they aretoo lazy or undisciplined to give it shape and form. They create so much space and confusion that in the end nothing coheres.The solution is to plan, to have a clear idea what you want, then put yourselfin open space and give yourself options to work with. You direct the situationbut leave room for unexpected opportunities and random events. Both generalsand artists can be judged by the way they handle chaos and confusion,embracing it yet guiding it for their own purposes. 5. One day in the Japan of the 1540s, in a ferryboat crowded with farmers,merchants, and craftsmen, a young samurai regaled all who would listen withtales of his great victories as a swordsman, wielding his three-foot-long sword ashe spoke to demonstrate his prowess. The other passengers were a little afraid ofthis athletic young man, so they feigned interest in his stories to avoid trouble.But one older man sat to the side, ignoring the young boaster. The older man wasobviously a samurai himself--he carried two swords--but no one knew that thiswas in fact Tsukahara Bokuden, perhaps the greatest swordsman of his time. Hewas in his fifties by then and liked to travel alone and incognito.Mobility, defined as the ability to project power over distance, is anothercharacteristic of good chess. It is the goal of a good chess player to ensurethat each of his pieces can exert pressure upon a maximum number ofsquares, rather than being bottled up in a corner, surrounded by other pieces.Hence, the chess master looks forward to pawn exchanges (infantry battles, ifyou will), not because he is trying to wear down the enemy, but because heknows that he can project the power of his rooks (mechanized forces) downthe resulting open files. In this manner, the chess master fights in order tomove. This idea is central to maneuver-warfare theory.THE ART OF MANEUVER, ROBERT R. LEONHARD, 1991Bokuden sat with his eyes closed, seemingly deep in meditation. Hisstillness and silence began to annoy the young samurai, who finally called out,"Don't you like this kind of talk? You don't even know how to wield a sword, oldman, do you?" "I most certainly do," answered Bokuden. "My way, however, isnot to wield my sword in such inconsequential circumstances as these." "A wayof using a sword that doesn't use a sword," said the young samurai. "Don't talkgibberish. What is your school of fighting called?" "It is called Mutekatsu-ryu[style that wins without swords or fighting]," replied Bokuden. "What?Mutekatsu-ryu? Don't be ridiculous. How can you defeat an opponent without fighting?"By now the young samurai was angry and irritated, and he demanded thatBokuden demonstrate his style, challenging him to a fight then and there.Bokuden refused to duel in the crowded boat but said he would show thesamurai Mutekatsu-ryu at the nearest shore, and he asked the ferryman to guidethe boat to a tiny nearby island. The young man