the greatest affinity withyou.--Salvador Dali (1904-1989)KEYS TO WARFAREThe most common form of defense in old-fashioned warfare was the fortress orwalled city, and military leaders strategized for centuries about how to take suchstructures. The fortress presented a simple problem: it was designed to beimpenetrable, to require such an effort to take it that unless doing so wasstrategically essential, an army would tend to pass it by. The conventionalstrategy against the fortress was to scale or breach its walls, using siege enginesand battering rams. Often that meant first besieging it, creating around it circlesknown as "lines of circumvallation and contravallation" that would preventsupplies and reinforcements from coming in and the defenders from leaving. Thecity's inhabitants would slowly starve and weaken, making it possible eventuallyto breach the walls and take the castle. These sieges tended to be quite long andbloody.Over the centuries, however, certain enlightened strategists hit upon a different way to bring down the walls. Their strategy was based on a simplepremise: the apparent strength of the fortress is an illusion, for behind its wallsare people who are trapped, afraid, even desperate. The city's leaders haveessentially run out of options; they can only put their faith in the fortress'sarchitecture. To lay siege to these walls is to mistake the appearance of strengthfor reality. If in fact the walls are hiding great weakness within, then the properstrategy is to bypass them and aim for the interior. This can be done literally, bydigging tunnels beneath the walls, undermining their strength--a conventionalmilitary strategy. A better, more devious route is to infiltrate people inside themor to work with the city's disaffected inhabitants. This is known as "opening aninner front"--finding a group on the inside who will work on your behalf tospread discontent and will eventually betray the fortress into your hands, sparingyou a long siege.In late January 1968, the North Vietnamese launched the famous TetOffensive against the South Vietnamese and American armies. Among theirtargets was Hue, the ancient capital of Vietnam and a city of great religioussignificance for the Vietnamese people. In the center of Hue is a massive fortcalled the Citadel, and within the Citadel is the Imperial Palace compound, theheart and soul of Hue. The Citadel has incredibly thick and high walls and issurrounded on all sides by water. In 1968 it was guarded by American soldiersand their allies. Yet the North Vietnamese were somehow able to take the Citadelwith remarkable ease. They held it for several weeks, then disappeared from Hueas if by magic after a massive U.S. counterattack. The Citadel was unimportantto them as a physical or strategic possession; what they were after was thesymbolism of being able to take it, showing the world that Americaninvincibility was a myth.The capture of the Citadel was a remarkable feat, and this is how it wasdone. Months before Tet, the North Vietnamese began to infiltrate men into thecity and to organize those of their sympathizers who already lived in Hue andworked inside the Citadel. They got hold of detailed plans of the fortress, whichallowed them