couldbe almost anything. Crazy opponents are terrifying--no one likes fighting peoplewho are unpredictable and have nothing to lose. Play on people's natural paranoia. Instead of threatening your opponentsopenly, you take action that is indirect and designed to make them think. This might mean using a go-between to send them a message--to tell some disturbingstory about what you are capable of. Or maybe you "inadvertently" let them spyon you, only to hear something that should give them cause for concern. Makingyour enemies think they have found out you are plotting a countermove is moreeffective than telling them so yourself; make a threat and you may have to liveup to it, but making them think you are working treacherously against them isanother story. The more veiled menace and uncertainty you generate, the moretheir imaginations will run away with them and the more dangerous an attack onyou will seem. Establish a frightening reputation. This reputation can be for any number ofthings: being difficult, stubborn, violent, ruthlessly efficient. Build up that imageover the years and people will back off from you, treating you with respect and alittle fear. Why obstruct or pick an argument with someone who has shown hewill fight to the bitter end? Someone strategic yet ruthless? To create this image,you may every now and then have to play a bit rough, but eventually it willbecome enough of a deterrent to make those occasions rare. It will be anoffensive weapon, scaring people into submission before they even meet you. Inany event, you must build your reputation carefully, allowing no inconsistencies.Any holes in this kind of image will make it worthless.Brinkmanship is...the deliberate creation of a recognizable risk, a risk thatone does not completely control. It is the tactic of deliberately letting thesituation get somewhat out of hand, just because its being out of hand may beintolerable to the other party and force his accommodation. It meansharassing and intimidating an adversary by exposing him to a shared risk, ordeterring him by showing that if he makes a contrary move he may disturb usso that we slip over the brink whether we want to or not, carrying him withus.THINKING STRATEGICALLY, AVINASH K. DIXIT AND BARRY J.NALEBUFF, 1991Injuring all of a man's ten fingers is not as effective as chopping off one.--Mao Tse-tung (1893-1976)DETERRENCE AND REVERSE INTIMIDATION IN PRACTICE1. In March 1862, less than a year after the start of the American Civil War, the Confederates' situation looked bleak: they had lost a series of important battles,their generals were squabbling, morale was low, and recruits were hard to find.Sensing the South's great weakness, a large Union army under Major GeneralGeorge B. McClellan headed toward the Virginia coast, planning to march fromthere west to Richmond, the capital of the South. There were enoughConfederate troops in the area to hold off McClellan's army for a month or two,but Southern spies reported that Union troops stationed near Washington wereabout to be transferred to the march on Richmond. If these troops reachedMcClellan--and they were promised by Abraham Lincoln himself--Richmondwould