bond. Only thendid he hit them with a speech that brought home their precarious reality andswayed their emotions.At Cannae a one-line joke had the same effect: instead of trying to persuadethe troops of his confidence, Hannibal showed it to them. Even as they laughedat the joke about Gisgo, they bonded over it and understood its inner meaning.No need for a speech. Hannibal knew that subtle changes in his men's moodcould spell the difference between victory and defeat.Like Hannibal, you must aim indirectly at people's emotions: get them tolaugh or cry over something that seems unrelated to you or to the issue at hand.Emotions are contagious--they bring people together and make them bond. Thenyou can play them like a piano, moving them from one emotion to the other.Oratory and eloquent pleas only irritate and insult us; we see right through them.Motivation is subtler than that. By advancing indirectly, setting up youremotional appeal, you will get inside instead of just scratching the surface. 4. In the 1930s and '40s, the Green Bay Packers were one of the most successfulteams in professional football, but by the late '50s they were the worst. Whatwent wrong? The team had many talented players, like the former All-AmericanPaul Hornung. The owners cared about it deeply and kept hiring new coaches,new players--but nothing could slow the fall. The players tried; they hatedlosing. And, really, they weren't that bad--they came close to winning many ofthe games they lost. So what could they do about it?He suddenly lost concern for himself, and forgot to look at a menacing fate.He became not a man but a member. He felt that something of which he was apart--a regiment, an army, a cause, or a country--was in a crisis. He waswelded into a common personality which was dominated by a single desire.For some moments he could not flee, no more than a little finger can commita revolution from a hand.... There was a consciousness always of the presenceof his comrades about him. He felt the subtle battle brotherhood more potenteven than the cause for which they were fighting. It was a mysteriousfraternity born of the smoke and danger of death.THE RED BADGE OF COURAGE, STEPHEN CRANE, 1871-1900The Packers hit bottom in 1958. For the 1959 season, they tried the usualtrick, bringing in a new coach and general manager: Vince Lombardi. Theplayers mostly didn't know much about the man, except that he had been anassistant coach for the New York Giants.As the players convened to meet the new coach, they expected the typicalspeech: this is the year to turn things around; I'm going to get tough with you; nomore business as usual. Lombardi did not disappoint them: in a quiet, forcefultone, he explained a new set of rules and code of conduct. But a few playersnoticed something different about Lombardi: he oozed confidence--no shouts, nodemands. His tone and manner suggested that the Packers were already awinning team; they just had to live up to it. Was he an idiot or some kind ofvisionary?Then came