progress; despite their training and linguistic talents, they found thelanguage maddeningly elusive.Daniel Everett was one of the most promising linguists the SIL had seen in along time, and when the institute presented him with the challenge of the Pirahãhe was more than excited. His wife’s parents had been missionaries stationed inBrazil, and Keren had grown up in an environment not too dissimilar to a Pirahãvillage. It seemed the family was up to the task, and in his first months thereEverett made good progress. He attacked the Pirahã language with great energy. Everett made good progress. He attacked the Pirahã language with great energy.Using the methods he had learned at SIL, he slowly built up a vocabulary andthe ability to speak some rudimentary sentences. He copied everything down onindex cards and carried them in his belt loop. He was a tireless researcher.Although life in the village presented some challenges for him and his family, hewas comfortable with the Pirahã and hoped they had accepted his presence. Butsoon he began to feel that all was not right.Part of the SIL method was to encourage immersion in the indigenousculture as the best means for learning the language. Missionaries are essentiallyabandoned to their fate, to sink or swim in the local culture without any crutchesto lean on. Perhaps unconsciously, however, Everett could not help but keepsome distance and feel ever so slightly superior to the backward culture of thePirahã. He became aware of this inner distance after several incidents thatoccurred in the village.First, several months into their stay, his wife and daughter nearly died frommalaria. He was rather perturbed by the lack of empathy from the Pirahã aboutthis. A little later, Everett and his wife tried desperately to nurse back to health aPirahã infant that was gravely ill. The Pirahã were certain the baby would die,and seemed bothered by the missionaries’ efforts. Then one day, Everett and hiswife discovered the baby was dead; the Pirahã had forced alcohol down its throatto kill it. Although he tried to rationalize this event to himself, he could not helpbut feel some disgust. On another occasion, for apparently no reason, a group ofPirahã men had gotten very drunk and were looking for him in order to kill him.He managed to escape the threat, and nothing else ever happened, but it madehim wonder about the safety of his family.More than anything, however, he began to feel disappointed by the Pirahãthemselves. He had read much about Amazonian tribes, and by any standards thePirahã did not measure up. They had virtually no material culture—no importanttools, artwork, costumes, or jewelry. If women needed a basket, they would findsome moist palm leaves, quickly weave them together, use the basket once ortwice, and then abandon it. They placed no value on material things, and nothingin their villages was designed to last very long. They had few rituals, and as faras he could tell no real folklore or creation myths. One time he had been wokenup by excitement in the village—apparently a spirit who lived