Napoleon's armies, which Austria could not hope to defeat--Napoleon was ageneral for the ages--but Napoleon's mind. The prince understood that even themost powerful of men remains human and has human weaknesses. By enteringNapoleon's private life, being deferential and subordinate, Metternich could findhis weaknesses and hurt him as no army could. By getting closer to himemotionally--through the emperor's sister Caroline, through the ArchduchessMarie Louise, through their convivial meetings--he could choke him in afriendly embrace.Understand: your real enemy is your opponent's mind. His armies, hisresources, his intelligence, can all be overcome if you can fathom his weakness,the emotional blind spot through which you can deceive, distract, andmanipulate him. The most powerful army in the world can be beaten by unhinging the mind of its leader.And the best way to find the leader's weaknesses is not through spies butthrough the close embrace. Behind a friendly, even subservient front, you canobserve your enemies, get them to open up and reveal themselves. Get insidetheir skin; think as they think. Once you discover their vulnerability--anuncontrollable temper, a weakness for the opposite sex, a gnawing insecurity--you have the material to destroy them.War is not an act of the will aimed at inanimate matter, as it is in themechanical arts.... Rather, [it] is an act of the will aimed at a living entity thatreacts.--Carl von Clausewitz (1780-1831)KEYS TO WARFAREThe greatest power you could have in life would come neither from limitlessresources nor even consummate skill in strategy. It would come from clearknowledge of those around you--the ability to read people like a book. Giventhat knowledge, you could distinguish friend from foe, smoking out snakes in thegrass. You could anticipate your enemies' malice, pierce their strategies, and takedefensive action. Their transparency would reveal to you the emotions theycould least control. Armed with that knowledge, you could make them tumbleinto traps and destroy them.This kind of knowledge has been a military goal since the dawn of history.That is why the arts of intelligence gathering and spying were invented. Butspies are unreliable; they filter information through their own preconceptionsand prejudices, and since their trade places them precisely between one side andthe other and forces them to be independent operators, they are notoriously hardto control and can turn against you. Then, too, the nuances that give peopleaway--the tone in a speaker's voice, the look in his or her eyes--are inevitablymissing from their reports. In the end the spy's information means nothing unlessyou are adept at interpreting human behavior and psychology. Without that skillyou will see in it what you want to see, confirming your own prejudices.The leaders who have made best use of intelligence--Hannibal, JuliusCaesar, Prince Metternich, Winston Churchill, Lyndon Johnson during his careerin the U.S. Senate--were all first and foremost great students of human natureand superior readers of men. They honed their skills through personalobservation of people. Only with that foundation could the use of spies extend their powers of vision.In my opinion, there are two kinds of eyes: one kind simply looks at thingsand the other sees through things to