is down, an unexpected blow from the side willknock them out. Your use of slowness and speed, then, should be deliberate andcontrolled, never a natural tempo that you fall into.In general, when facing a fast enemy, the only true defense is to be as fast orfaster. Only speed can neutralize speed. Setting up a rigid defense, as the shahdid against the Mongols, only plays into the hands of the swift and mobile. CONTROL THE DYNAMICFORCING STRATEGIESPeople are constantly struggling to control you--getting you to act in theirinterests, keeping the dynamic on their terms. The only way to get the upperhand is to make your play for control more intelligent and insidious. Instead oftrying to dominate the other side's every move, work to define the nature of therelationship itself. Shift the conflict to terrain of your choice, altering the paceand stakes to suit you. Maneuver to control your opponents' minds, pushing theiremotional buttons, and compelling them to make mistakes. If necessary, let themfeel they are in control in order to get them to lower their guard. If you controlthe overall direction and framing of the battle, anything they do will play intoyour hands."Pressing down the pillow" refers to one's efforts not to let the head of one'sopponent rise. In battles based on martial strategy, it is taboo to let youropponent take the initiative, thus putting yourself on the defensive. You musttry at all costs to lead your opponent by taking complete control of him.During combat, your opponent intends to dominate you as much as you wantto dominate him, so it is vital that you pick up on your opponent's intentionsand tactics so as to control him.... According to the principle of martialstrategy, you must be able to control your opponent(s) at all times. Study thispoint well.THE BOOK OF FIVE RINGS, MIYAMOTO MUSASHI, 1584-1645THE ART OF ULTIMATE CONTROLControl is an issue in all relationships. It is human nature to abhor feelings ofhelplessness and to strive for power. Whenever two people or groups interact,there is a constant maneuvering between them to define the relationship, todetermine who has control over this and that. This battle of wills is inevitable.Your task as a strategist is twofold: First, recognize the struggle for control in allaspects of life, and never be taken in by those who claim they are not interestedin control. Such types are often the most manipulative of all. Second, you must master the art of moving the other side like pieces on a chessboard, with purposeand direction. This art was cultivated by the most creative generals and militarystrategists throughout the ages.War is above all else a struggle over who can control the actions of the otherside to a greater extent. Military geniuses such as Hannibal, Napoleon, andErwin Rommel discovered that the best way to attain control is to determine theoverall pace, direction, and shape of the war itself. This means getting enemiesto fight according to your tempo, luring them onto terrain that is unfamiliar tothem and suited to you, playing to your strengths. And,