the human hand. Her design dazzled Brooks—it was yearsahead of anything anyone had ever developed.Feeling that there was a critical lack in her knowledge, she decided to gainan additional degree in neuroscience. If she could better understand theconnection between the hand and the brain, she could design a prosthetic limbthat would feel and respond like a human hand. She continued this process,adding new fields of science to her résumé, culminating in the creation of acompletely new field, one that she would dub neurobotics—the design of robotsthat possessed simulated versions of human neurology, bringing them closer tolife itself. Forging this field would bring her great success in science and put herin the ultimate position of power—the ability to freely combine all of herinterests. The career world is like an ecological system: People occupy particular fieldswithin which they must compete for resources and survival. The more peoplethere are crowded into a space, the harder it becomes to thrive there. Working insuch a field will tend to wear you out as you struggle to get attention, to play thepolitical games, to win scarce resources for yourself. You spend so much time atthese games that you have little time left over for true mastery. You are seducedinto such fields because you see others there making a living, treading thefamiliar path. You are not aware of how difficult such a life can be.The game you want to play is different: to instead find a niche in the ecologythat you can dominate. It is never a simple process to find such a niche. Itrequires patience and a particular strategy. In the beginning you choose a fieldthat roughly corresponds to your interests (medicine, electrical engineering).From there you can go in one of two directions. The first is the Ramachandranpath. From within your chosen field, you look for side paths that particularlyattract you (in his case the science of perception and optics). When it is possible,you make a move to this narrower field. You continue this process until youeventually hit upon a totally unoccupied niche, the narrower the better. In someways, this niche corresponds to your uniqueness, much as Ramachandran’sparticular form of neurology corresponds to his own primal sense of feeling likean exception. an exception.The second is the Matsuoka path. Once you have mastered your first field(robotics), you look for other subjects or skills that you can conquer(neuroscience), on your own time if necessary. You can now combine this addedfield of knowledge to the original one, perhaps creating a new field, or at leastmaking novel connections between them. You continue this process as long asyou wish—in Matsuoka’s case, she never stops expanding. Ultimately you createa field that is uniquely your own. This second version fits in well with a culturewhere information is so widely available, and in which connecting ideas is aform of power.In either direction, you have found a niche that is not crowded withcompetitors. You have freedom to roam, to pursue particular questions thatinterest you. You set your own agenda and command the resources available tothis