in theend they're advancing their own interests at your expense. Then there are thosewho master moral warfare, playing the victim, making you feel guilty forsomething unspecified you've done. The battlefield is full of these warriors,slippery, evasive, and clever.Understand: the word "enemy"--from the Latin inimicus, "not a friend"--hasbeen demonized and politicized. Your first task as a strategist is to widen yourconcept of the enemy, to include in that group those who are working againstyou, thwarting you, even in subtle ways. (Sometimes indifference and neglect are better weapons than aggression, because you can't see the hostility theyhide.) Without getting paranoid, you need to realize that there are people whowish you ill and operate indirectly. Identify them and you'll suddenly have roomto maneuver. You can stand back and wait and see or you can take action,whether aggressive or just evasive, to avoid the worst. You can even work to turnthis enemy into a friend. But whatever you do, do not be the naive victim. Donot find yourself constantly retreating, reacting to your enemies' maneuvers.Arm yourself with prudence, and never completely lay down your arms, noteven for friends.As one travels up any one of the large rivers [of Borneo], one meets withtribes that are successively more warlike. In the coast regions are peacefulcommunities which never fight save in self-defense, and then with but poorsuccess, whereas in the central regions, where the rivers take their rise, are anumber of extremely warlike tribes whose raids have been a constant sourceof terror to the communities settled in the lower reaches of the rivers.... Itmight be supposed that the peaceful coast people would be found to besuperior in moral qualities to their more warlike neighbors, but the contraryis the case. In almost all respects the advantage lies with the warlike tribes.Their houses are better built, larger, and cleaner; their domestic morality issuperior; they are physically stronger, are braver, and physically andmentally more active and in general are more trustworthy. But, above all,their social organization is firmer and more efficient because their respect forand obedience to their chiefs and their loyalty to their community are muchgreater; each man identifies himself with the whole community and acceptsand loyally performs the social duties laid upon him.WILLIAM MCDOUGALL, 1871-1938People are usually good at hiding their hostility, but often theyunconsciously give off signals showing that all is not what it seems. One of theclosest friends and advisers of the Chinese Communist Party leader Mao Tse-tung was Lin Biao, a high-ranking member of the Politburo and possiblesuccessor to the chairman. In the late 1960s and early '70s, though, Mao detecteda change in Lin: he had become effusively friendly. Everyone praised Mao, butLin's praise was embarrassingly fervent. To Mao this meant that something waswrong. He watched Lin closely and decided that the man was plotting atakeover, or at the very least positioning himself for the top spot. And Mao wasright: Lin was plotting busily. The point is not to mistrust all friendly gesturesbut to notice them. Register any change in the emotional temperature: unusual chumminess,