THE INNER-FRONT STRATEGYBy infiltrating your opponents' ranks, working from within to bring themdown, you give them nothing to see or react against--the ultimate advantage.To take something you want, do not fight those who have it, but rather jointhem--then either slowly make it your own or wait for the moment to stage acoup d'etat.32DOMINATE WHILE SEEMING TO SUBMIT: THE PASSIVE-AGGRESSION STRATEGYIn a world where political considerations are paramount, the most effectiveform of aggression is the best hidden one: aggression behind a compliant,even loving exterior. To follow the passive-aggression strategy you must seemto go along with people, offering no resistance. But actually you dominate thesituation. Just make sure you have disguised your aggression enough that youcan deny it exists.33 SOW UNCERTAINTY AND PANIC THROUGH ACTS OF TERROR:THE CHAIN-REACTION STRATEGYTerror is the ultimate way to paralyze a people's will to resist and destroy theirability to plan a strategic response. The goal in a terror campaign is notbattlefield victory but causing maximum chaos and provoking the other sideinto desperate overreaction. To plot the most effective counterstrategy, victimsof terror must stay balanced. One's rationality is the last line of defense.SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHYINDEX PREFACEWe live in a culture that promotes democratic values of being fair to one and all,the importance of fitting into a group, and knowing how to cooperate with otherpeople. We are taught early on in life that those who are outwardly combativeand aggressive pay a social price: unpopularity and isolation. These values ofharmony and cooperation are perpetuated in subtle and not-so-subtle ways--through books on how to be successful in life; through the pleasant, peacefulexteriors that those who have gotten ahead in the world present to the public;through notions of correctness that saturate the public space. The problem for usis that we are trained and prepared for peace, and we are not at all prepared forwhat confronts us in the real world--war.The life of man upon earth is a warfare.JOB 7:1Qui desiderat pacem, praeparet bellum (let him who wants peace prepare forwar)VEGETIUS, A.D. FOURTH CENTURYThis war exists on several levels. Most obviously, we have our rivals on theother side. The world has become increasingly competitive and nasty. In politics,business, even the arts, we face opponents who will do almost anything to gainan edge. More troubling and complex, however, are the battles we face withthose who are supposedly on our side. There are those who outwardly play theteam game, who act very friendly and agreeable, but who sabotage us behind thescenes, use the group to promote their own agenda. Others, more difficult tospot, play subtle games of passive aggression, offering help that never comes,instilling guilt as a secret weapon. On the surface everything seems peacefulenough, but just below it, it is every man and woman for him-or herself, thisdynamic infecting even families and relationships. The culture may deny thisreality and promote a gentler picture, but we know it and feel it, in our battlescars.It is not that we and our colleagues are ignoble creatures who fail to live upto ideals of peace and selflessness, but that