powerful emotions—elation, depression, eroticdesires. His great desire was to transpose these feelings into his work.Almost without being aware of it, he began to experiment. He wrote a seriesof slow movements for various string quartets that were long and drawn out withstrange mixes of moods, full of anxiety that would rise to great crescendos.When he showed these pieces to his father, Leopold was horrified. Their incomedepended on Wolfgang supplying the court with the kind of pleasant melodiesthat would delight people and make them smile. If they or the archbishop heardthese new compositions, they would think Wolfgang had gone insane. Besides,the pieces were too complicated for the court musicians of Salzburg to perform.He begged his son to stop indulging in such strange music, or at least to waituntil he had a position somewhere else.Wolfgang acquiesced, but as time went on he grew increasingly depressed.The music he was being forced to write seemed so hopelessly dead andconventional; it had no relation to what was going on inside him. He composedfewer pieces and performed less often. For the first time in his life he was losinghis love for music itself. Feeling imprisoned, he grew irritable. When he heardan operatic aria sung in public he was reminded of the kind of music he could becomposing, and he would go into a funk. He began to quarrel incessantly withhis father, passing from anger to begging for forgiveness for his disobedience.Slowly he resigned himself to his fate: he would die in Salzburg at an early age,without the world ever hearing the kind of music he knew existed within him.In 1781 Wolfgang was invited to accompany the archbishop of Salzburg toVienna, where he was planning to showcase the musical talents of his variouscourt musicians. Suddenly, in Vienna, the nature of his status as a court musicianbecame clear. The archbishop ordered him about as if he were simply one of his became clear. The archbishop ordered him about as if he were simply one of hispersonal staff, a mere servant. Now all the resentment Wolfgang had felt for thepast seven years bubbled and rose to the surface. He was twenty-five years oldand losing valuable time. His father and the archbishop were actively holdinghim back. He loved his father and depended on his family for emotional support,but he could tolerate his circumstances no longer. When it was time to return toSalzburg, he did the unthinkable—he refused to leave. He asked to be dismissedfrom his position. The archbishop treated him with the utmost contempt, butfinally relented. His father sided with the archbishop and ordered his son toreturn, promising that all would be forgiven. But Wolfgang had made up hismind: he would stay in Vienna, for what would turn out to be the rest of his life.The rift with his father was permanent and extremely painful, but sensingthat his time was short and that he had almost too much to express, he threwhimself into his music with an intensity that was even greater than what he haddisplayed in childhood. As if all