knew how to flatter andingratiate himself. No one could quite figure him out or gain any sense of whatthe future might hold for such an oddball.In 1888 Marcel met a thirty-seven-year-old courtesan named Laure Hayman,who was the mistress of his uncle, among many others, and for him it wasinstant infatuation. She was like a character out of a novel. Her clothes, hercoquettish manner, her power over men fascinated him. Charming her with hiswitty conversation and polite manners, they quickly became close friends. InFrance there had long been the tradition of salons—gatherings where people oflike mind discussed literary and philosophical ideas. In most cases women ranthese various salons, and depending on the social status of the hostess, theycould attract important artists, thinkers, and political figures. Laure had her owninfamous salon, frequented by artists, bohemians, actors, and actresses. SoonMarcel became a regular.He found the social life in these upper echelons of French society endlesslyfascinating. It was a world full of subtle signs—an invitation to a ball, or theparticular seating position at a dinner table would indicate the status of anindividual, whether they were on the rise or the decline. Clothes and gesturesand certain phrases of conversation would lead to endless critiques andjudgments about people. He wanted to explore this realm and learn all of itsintricacies. The attention he used to direct toward history and literature he nowdirected toward the world of high society. He inveigled his way into othersalons, and was soon mingling with upper aristocracy.Although he was determined to become a writer, Marcel had never been ableto figure out what he wanted to write about, and this had troubled him to no end.Now, however, he had his answer: this social world would be the ant colony thathe would analyze as ruthlessly as an entomologist. For this purpose he began tocollect characters for novels. One such character was the Count Robert deMontesquiou, a poet, aesthete, and notorious decadent who had a pronouncedweakness for handsome young men. Another was Charles Haas, the epitome ofhigh-society chicness and an expert art collector who couldn’t help falling in love with lower-class women. He studied these characters, listened intently totheir way of talking, followed their mannerisms, and in his notebooks he wouldtry to bring them to life in small literary sketches. In his writing, Marcel was amaster mimic.Everything he wrote about had to be something real, something he hadwitnessed or experienced firsthand; otherwise, his writing came out lifeless. Hisown fear of intimate personal relationships, however, presented him with aproblem. Attracted to both men and women, he tended to keep his distance whenit came to any type of close physical and emotional relationship. This made ithard for him to write about romance and love from the inside. So he initiated apractice that served him well. If he were attracted to a particular woman, hewould befriend her fiancé or boyfriend and, gaining his trust, would probe himfor the most intimate details about their relationship. Since he was such an acutepsychologist he could give excellent advice. Later, in his own