her on constant alert and dominate her in everyway. The doctors had found nothing wrong with him, yet he genuinely seemed weak and always believed that a heart attack was imminent. The woman feltconcerned, angry, and guilty all at the same time. Erickson advised her tocontinue being sympathetic to his condition, but the next time he talked about aheart attack, she was to tell him politely she needed to tidy the house. She wasthen to place brochures she had collected from morticians all around the house.If he did it again, she was to go to the desk in the living room and begin addingup the figures in his life-insurance policies. At first the husband was furious, butsoon he came to fear seeing those brochures and hearing the sound of the addingmachine. He stopped talking about his heart and was forced to deal with his wifein a more direct manner.InterpretationIn some relationships you may have a gnawing feeling that the other person hasgained control of the dynamic, yet you find it hard to pinpoint how or when thisoccurred. All that can be said for certain is that you feel unable to move the otherperson, to influence the course of the relationship. Everything you do only seemsto feed the power of the controller. The reason for this is that the other personhas adopted subtle, insidious forms of control that are easily disguised and yet allthe more effective for being unconscious and passive. Such types exert controlby being depressed, overly anxious, overburdened with work--they are thevictims of constant injustice. They cannot help their situation. They demandattention, and if you fail to provide it, they make you feel guilty. They areelusive and impossible to fight because they make it appear at each turn that theyare not at all looking for control. They are more willful than you, but better atdisguising it. In truth, you are the one who feels helpless and confused by theirguerrilla-like tactics.To alter the dynamic, you must first recognize that there is far lesshelplessness in their behavior than they let on. Second, these people need to feelthat everything takes place on their terms; threaten that desire and they fightback in underhanded ways. You must never inadvertently feed theirrebelliousness by arguing, complaining, trying to push them in a direction. Thismakes them feel more under attack, more like a victim, and encourages passiverevenge. Instead move within their system of control, applying Erickson'sUtilization Technique. Be sympathetic to their plight, but make it seem thatwhatever they do, they are actually cooperating with your own desires. That willput them off balance; if they rebel now, they are playing into your hands. Thedynamic will subtly shift, and you will have room to insinuate change. Similarly,if the other person wields a fundamental weakness as a weapon (the heart-attacktactic), make that threat impossible to use against you by taking it further, to the point of parody or painfulness. The only way to beat passive opponents is tooutdo them in subtle control. Authority: In order to have rest oneself it