to fuel it. Sodo not sit back and wait for people to get aggressive; irritate and infuriate themdeliberately. Feeling cornered by a multitude of people who dislike you, you willfight like hell. Hatred is a powerful emotion. Remember: in any battle you areputting your name and reputation on the line; your enemies will relish yourfailure. Use that pressure to make yourself fight harder. Keep yourself restless and unsatisfied. Napoleon had many qualities that madehim perhaps history's greatest general, but the one that raised him to the heightsand kept him there was his boundless energy. During campaigns he workedeighteen to twenty-hour days. If necessary, he would go without sleep for several days, yet sleeplessness rarely reduced his capacities. He would work in the bath,at the theater, during a dinner party. Keeping his eye on every detail of the war,he would ride endless miles on horseback without tiring or complaining.O gentlemen, the time of life is short! To spend that shortness basely were toolong, If life did ride upon a dial's point, Still ending at the arrival of an hour.An if we live, we live to tread on kings; If die, brave death, when princes diewith us!KING HENRY IV, PART I, WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, 1564-1616Certainly Napoleon had extraordinary endurance, but there was more to itthan that: he never let himself rest, was never satisfied. In 1796, in his first realposition of command, he led the French to a remarkable victory in Italy, thenimmediately went on another campaign, this time in Egypt. There, unhappy withthe way the war was going and with a lack of political power that he felt wascutting into his control over military affairs, he returned to France and conspiredto become first consul. This achieved, he immediately set out on his secondItalian campaign. And on he went, immersing himself in new wars, newchallenges, that required him to call on his limitless energy. If he did not meetthe crisis, he would perish.When we are tired, it is often because we are bored. When no real challengefaces us, a mental and physical lethargy sets in. "Sometimes death only comesfrom a lack of energy," Napoleon once said, and lack of energy comes from alack of challenges, comes when we have taken on less than we are capable of.Take a risk and your body and mind will respond with a rush of energy. Makerisk a constant practice; never let yourself settle down. Soon living on deathground will become a kind of addiction--you won't be able to do without it.When soldiers survive a brush with death, they often feel an exhilaration thatthey want to have again. Life has more meaning in the face of death. The risksyou keep taking, the challenges you keep overcoming, are like symbolic deathsthat sharpen your appreciation of life. Authority: When you will survive if you fight quickly and perish if youdo not, this is called [death] ground.... Put them in a spot where theyhave no place to go, and they will die before fleeing. If they are to diethere, what can