true nourishment of a thoughtful mind, the true delight of a virtuous soul. ci One half of the W orld laughs at the other , and F ools are they all. Everything is good or everything is bad according to the votes they gain. What one pursues another persecutes. He is an in-suﬀerable ass that would regulate everything according to his ideas. Excellences do not depend on a single man's pleasure. So many men, so many tastes, all diﬀerent. There is no defect which is not aﬀected by some, nor need we lose heart if things please not some, for others will appreciate them. Nor need their applause turn our head, for there will surely be others to condemn. The real test of praise is the approbation of famous men and of experts in the matter. Y ou should aim to be independent of any one vote, of any one fashion, of any one century . cii Be able to stomach big slices of Luck. In the body of wisdom not the least important organ is a big stomach, for great capacity implies great parts. Big bits of luck do not embarrass one who can digest still bigger ones. What is a surfeit for one may be hunger for another. Many are troubled as it were with weak digestion, owing to their small capacity being neither born nor trained for great employment. Their actions turn sour, and the humours that arise from their undeserved honours turn their head and they incur great risks in high place: they do not ﬁnd their proper place, for luck ﬁnds no proper place in them. A man of talent therefore should show that he has more room for even greater enterprises, and above all avoid showing signs of a little heart. viii Let each keep up his Dignity . Let each deed of a man in its degree, though he be not a king, be worthy of a prince, and let his action be princely within due limits. Sublime in action, lofty in thought, in all things like a king, at least in merit if not in might. For true kingship lies in spotless rectitude, and he need not envy greatness who can serve as a model of it. Especially should those near the throne aim at true superiority , and prefer to share the true qualities of royalty rather than take parts in its mere ceremonies, yet without aﬀecting its imperfections but sharing in its true dignity . civ Try your hand at Office. It requires varied qualities, and to know which is needed taxes attention and calls for masterly discernment. Some demand courage, others tact. Those that merely require rectitude are the easiest, the most diﬃcult those requiring cleverness. For the former all that is necessary is character; for the latter all one's attention and zeal may not suﬃce. 'Tis a troublesome business to rule men, still more fools or blockheads: double sense is needed with those who have none. It is