terms imposed by Scipioand the Senate, it was reduced to a client state of Rome. As a Mediterraneanpower and a threat to Rome, Carthage was finished for good.InterpretationOften what separates a mediocre general from a superior one is not theirstrategies or maneuvers but their vision--they simply look at the same problemfrom a different angle. Freed from the stranglehold of convention, the superiorgeneral naturally hits on the right strategy.The Romans were dazzled by Hannibal's strategic genius. They came to sofear him that the only strategies they could use against him were delay andavoidance. Scipio Africanus simply saw differently. At every turn he looked notat the enemy army, nor even at its leader, but at the pillar of support on which itstood--its critical vulnerability. He understood that military power was locatednot in the army itself but in its foundations, the things that supported it and madeit possible: money, supplies, public goodwill, allies. He found those pillars and bit by bit knocked them down.Scipio's first step was to see Spain, not Italy, as Hannibal's center of gravity.Within Spain the key was New Carthage. He did not chase the various Romanarmies but took New Carthage and turned the war around. Now Hannibal,deprived of his main military base and source of supply, would have to leanmore heavily on his other support base: Carthage itself, with its wealth andresources. So Scipio took the war to Africa. Trapped near Utica, he examinedwhat gave the enemy its power in this situation, and saw that it was not thearmies themselves but the position they had taken: get them to move out of thatposition without wasting men in a frontal battle and Carthage's soft underbellywould be exposed. By burning the camps, Scipio moved the armies. Then,instead of marching on the city of Carthage--a glittering prize that would havedrawn most generals like a magnet--he hit what would hurt the Carthaginianstate most: the fertile farming zone that was the source of its wealth. Finally,instead of chasing Hannibal, he made Hannibal come after him, to an area in themiddle of the country where he would be deprived of reinforcements andsupport. Now that Scipio had unbalanced the Carthaginians so completely, theirdefeat at Zama was definitive.Power is deceptive. If we imagine the enemy as a boxer, we tend to focus onhis punch. But still more than he depends on his punch, he depends on his legs;once they go weak, he loses balance, he cannot escape the other fighter, he issubject to grueling exchanges, and his punches gradually diminish in force untilhe is knocked out. When you look at your rivals, do not be distracted by theirpunch. To engage in any exchange of punches, in life or in war, is the height ofstupidity and waste. Power depends on balance and support; so look at what isholding your enemy up, and remember that what holds him up can also makehim fall. A person, like an army, usually gets his or her power from three or foursimultaneous sources: money, popularity, skillful maneuvering, some particularadvantage he has fostered. Knock