making an appearance, but after hearing a few sentences from his lips,Hakuin felt the same profound boredom and disappointment—quotes from texts,clever stories, all to cover up the deadness of the words. He began to wonder if itwas time to give up, if true enlightenment no longer existed. At the temple hemet another young monk who was equally disappointed with the talk of thepriest. They became friends, and one day the monk mentioned that he hadstudied for a few days under a strange and completely reclusive Master namedShoju Rojin, who was not like any other teacher he had encountered. He lived ina hard-to-reach village, accepted only a handful of students, and was verydemanding. This was all Hakuin needed to hear. He asked the young monk toguide him right away to Shoju.When he met the Master, he could see something in his eyes that wasdifferent from any other priest or teacher. He radiated power and self-mastery;you could read in his expression the pain he had endured to reach his currentstate. This man had lived and suffered. Hakuin was delighted when Shoju saidhe would accept him as a pupil, but his excitement soon turned to fear. Duringtheir first personal interview, Shoju asked him, “How do you understand thekoan (a Zen anecdote designed for instruction) about the Dog and the Buddha-Nature?” “No way to lay a hand or foot on that,” Hakuin replied, imagining thatwas a clever response, at which point Shoju reached out and grabbed his nose,pushing it with a harsh twist and yelling in his face, “Got a pretty good hand onit there!” He held on tightly for several minutes, giving Hakuin a feeling of utterparalysis.Over the course of the next few days he endured more and more abuse.Shoju made him feel that all of his studies and traveling had taught him nothing.He could not say or do one right thing. Out of nowhere he would receive a blowor a gob of spit in his face. He began to doubt every element of his previousknowledge, and he lived in complete terror of what Shoju would do next.Shoju gave him a series of the most difficult koans Hakuin had ever heard toponder and discuss. He could not make heads or tails of them. His feelings ofdejection and demoralization were reaching a breaking point, but knowing thatpersistence was important, he kept at it night and day. Soon he had doubts about persistence was important, he kept at it night and day. Soon he had doubts aboutShoju himself, and entertained thoughts of leaving him in the near future.One day, feeling particularly agitated, he wandered into a nearby village, andwithout knowing why or how, he began to contemplate one of the thorniestkoans Shoju had given him. Deep in thought, he strayed into the garden of aprivate house. The woman who lived there yelled at him to leave, but Hakuinseemed oblivious. Thinking he was a madman or a bandit she attacked him witha stick, knocking him hard to the ground. When he came to, minutes later, hesuddenly