a new desire to exchange confidences, excessive praise of you tothird parties, the desire for an alliance that may make more sense for the otherperson than for you. Trust your instincts: if someone's behavior seemssuspicious, it probably is. It may turn out to be benign, but in the meantime it isbest to be on your guard.You can sit back and read the signs or you can actively work to uncover yourenemies--beat the grass to startle the snakes, as the Chinese say. In the Bible weread of David's suspicion that his father-in-law, King Saul, secretly wanted himdead. How could David find out? He confided his suspicion to Saul's sonJonathan, his close friend. Jonathan refused to believe it, so David suggested atest. He was expected at court for a feast. He would not go; Jonathan wouldattend and pass along David's excuse, which would be adequate but not urgent.Sure enough, the excuse enraged Saul, who exclaimed, "Send at once and fetchhim unto me--he deserves to die!"David's test succeeded because it was ambiguous. His excuse for missing thefeast could be read in more than one way: if Saul meant well toward David, hewould have seen his son-in-law's absence as no more than selfish at worst, butbecause he secretly hated David, he saw it as effrontery, and it pushed him overthe edge. Follow David's example: say or do something that can be read in morethan one way, that may be superficially polite but that could also indicate a slightcoolness on your part or be seen as a subtle insult. A friend may wonder but willlet it pass. The secret enemy, though, will react with anger. Any strong emotionand you will know that there's something boiling under the surface.Often the best way to get people to reveal themselves is to provoke tensionand argument. The Hollywood producer Harry Cohn, president of UniversalPictures, frequently used this strategy to ferret out the real position of people inthe studio who refused to show what side they were on: he would suddenlyattack their work or take an extreme position, even an offensive one, in anargument. His provoked directors and writers would drop their usual caution andshow their real beliefs.Understand: people tend to be vague and slippery because it is safer thanoutwardly committing to something. If you are the boss, they will mimic yourideas. Their agreement is often pure courtiership. Get them emotional; peopleare usually more sincere when they argue. If you pick an argument with someoneand he keeps on mimicking your ideas, you may be dealing with a chameleon, aparticularly dangerous type. Beware of people who hide behind a facade ofvague abstractions and impartiality: no one is impartial. A sharply wordedquestion, an opinion designed to offend, will make them react and take sides. Man exists only in so far as he is opposed.GEORG HEGEL, 1770-1831Sometimes it is better to take a less direct approach with your potentialenemies--to be as subtle and conniving as they are. In 1519, Hernan Cortesarrived in Mexico with his band of adventurers. Among these five hundred menwere