important cities of theempire, Samarkand and Bukhara. The shah decided to establish a cordon ofsoldiers along the Syr Dar'ya, which the Mongols would have to cross to enterhis empire. They could not cross from the north--the desert was impassable--andto go to the south would be too great a detour. Keeping the bulk of his army inthe interior of Transoxiana, he would be able to place reinforcements whereneeded. He had an impregnable defensive position and superiority in numbers.Let the Mongols come. He would crush them.In the summer of 1219, scouts reported that the Mongols were approachingthe southern end of the Syr Dar'ya, through the Fergana Valley. The shah sent alarge force, under the leadership of his son Jalal ad-Din, to destroy the enemy.After a fierce battle, the Mongols retreated. Jalal ad-Din reported back to hisfather that the Mongol army was not nearly as fearsome as their reputation. Themen looked haggard, their horses emaciated, and they seemed none too eager tosustain a fight. The shah, believing the Mongols no match for his army, put moretroops at the southern end of the cordon and waited.A few months later, a Mongol battalion appeared without warning in thenorth, attacking the city of Otrar and capturing its governor--the same manresponsible for the outrage against the Mongol traders. The Mongols killed himby pouring molten silver into his eyes and ears. Stunned by how quickly theyhad managed to reach Otrar, and from an unexpected direction, the shah decidedto shift more troops to the north. These barbarians might move swiftly, hereasoned, but they could not overcome an entrenched army with such greatnumbers.Next, however, two Mongol armies swept south from Otrar, running parallelto the Syr Dar'ya. One, under General Jochi, began to attack key towns along theriver, while the other, under General Jebe, disappeared to the south. Like locusts,Jochi's army swarmed through the hills and lowlands near the river. The shah moved a good portion of his army to the river, keeping some reserves inSamarkand. Jochi's force was relatively small, 20,000 at most; these mobile unitshit one position after another, without warning, burning forts and wreakinghavoc.Reports from the front lines began to give the shah a picture of these strangewarriors from the east. Their army was all cavalry. Each Mongol not only rode ahorse but was trailed by several more riderless horses, all mares, and when hisown horse tired, he would mount a fresh one. These horses were light and fast.The Mongols were unencumbered by supply wagons; they carried their foodwith them, drank the mares' milk and blood, and killed and ate the horses thathad become weak. They could travel twice as fast as their enemy. Theirmarksmanship was extraordinary--facing forward or in retreat, they could firearrows with remarkable dexterity, making their attacks far deadlier than anythingthe shah's army had ever seen. Their divisions communicated over greatdistances with flags and torches; their maneuvers were precisely coordinated andnearly impossible to anticipate.Dealing with this constant harassment exhausted the shah's forces. Now,suddenly, the army under General Jebe that had disappeared to the southreappeared heading