so."RALPH D. SAWYER, THE TAO OF SPYCRAFT, 1998Metternich, then thirty-two, came from one of Europe's most illustrious families. A speaker of impeccable French, a staunch conservative in politics, hewas a paragon of breeding and elegance and an inveterate ladies' man. Thepresence of this polished aristocrat would add a sheen to the imperial court thatNapoleon was creating. More important, winning over a man of such power--andNapoleon could be quite seductive in private meetings--would help in his grandstrategy of making Austria a weak satellite. And Metternich's weakness forwomen would give Napoleon a way in.The two men met for the first time in August 1806, when Metternichpresented his credentials. Napoleon acted coolly. He dressed well for theoccasion but kept his hat on, which in the mores of the time was rather rude.After Metternich's speech--short and ceremonious--Napoleon began to pace theroom and talk politics in a way that made it clear he was in command. (He likedto stand up to talk to people while they remained seated.) He made a show ofspeaking pointedly and concisely; he was not some Corsican rube for thesophisticated Metternich to play with. In the end he was sure he had made theimpression he wanted.Coordination is less of a problem when political leaders themselves play anactive part in the intelligence effort. When he was Senate majority leader,Lyndon Johnson cultivated an extensive intelligence system with sources allover Washington. At one point in the 1950s, Johnson complained to areporter that he was focusing on internal Democratic problems while failingto cover divisions in the Senate GOP. To make his point, he pulled out amemorandum on a recent private meeting at which the reporter and severalof his colleagues had gotten a briefing on GOP factionalism from SenatorThurston Morton (R-KY). Rowland Evans and Robert Novak recalled: "TheIntelligence System was a marvel of efficiency. It was also ratherfrightening." Even in the White House, Johnson believed in firsthand politicalintelligence. According to his aide Harry McPherson, "I guess he called a lotof people, but I could usually count on it in the late afternoon, as he woke upfrom his nap, that I would get a call which would usually say, 'What do youknow?'" McPherson would then pass along the latest news that he picked upfrom reporters and political figures.THE ART OF POLITICAL WARFARE, JOHN J. PITNEY, JR., 2000Over the months to come, Napoleon and Metternich had many more suchmeetings. It was the emperor's plan to charm the prince, but the charm raninescapably the other way: Metternich had a way of listening attentively, makingapt comments, even complimenting Napoleon on his strategic insights. At those moments Napoleon would beam inside: here was a man who could trulyappreciate his genius. He began to crave Metternich's presence, and theirdiscussions of European politics became more and more frank. The two becamefriends of sorts.Hoping to take advantage of Metternich's weakness for women, Napoleonset up his sister, Caroline Murat, to have an affair with the prince. He learnedfrom her a few pieces of diplomatic gossip, and she told him that Metternich hadcome to respect him.