build things and yet needed constant mental stimulation. Shedecided she would carve out her own peculiar career path. Starting off freelance,she offered her services to various ranches and feedlots, designing cattle chutesthat were much more suited to the animals and more efficient. Slowly, with hervisual sense of design and engineering, she taught herself the rudiments of thebusiness. She expanded her services to designing more humane slaughterhousesand systems for managing farm animals.With this career solidly in place, she proceeded to go further: she became awriter; she returned to the university as a professor; she transformed herself intoa gifted lecturer on animals and autism. Somehow she had managed to overcomeall of the seemingly insurmountable obstructions in her path and find her way tothe Life’s Task that suited her to perfection. When you are faced with deficiencies instead of strengths and inclinations, thisis the strategy you must assume: ignore your weaknesses and resist thetemptation to be more like others. Instead, like Temple Grandin, direct yourselftoward the small things you are good at. Do not dream or make grand plans forthe future, but instead concentrate on becoming proficient at these simple andimmediate skills. This will bring you confidence and become a base from whichyou can expand to other pursuits. Proceeding in this way, step by step, you willhit upon your Life’s Task.Understand: Your Life’s Task does not always appear to you through somegrand or promising inclination. It can appear in the guise of your deficiencies,making you focus on the one or two things that you are inevitably good at.Working at these skills, you learn the value of discipline and see the rewards youget from your efforts. Like a lotus flower, your skills will expand outward from acenter of strength and confidence. Do not envy those who seem to be naturallygifted; it is often a curse, as such types rarely learn the value of diligence andfocus, and they pay for this later in life. This strategy applies as well to any focus, and they pay for this later in life. This strategy applies as well to anysetbacks and difficulties we may experience. In such moments, it is generallywise to stick to the few things we know and do well, and to reestablish ourconfidence.If someone like Temple Grandin, with so much against her at birth, can findher way to her Life’s Task and to mastery, it means it must be a poweraccessible to us all.Sooner or later something seems to call us onto a particular path. You may remember this“something” as a signal calling in childhood when an urge out of nowhere, a fascination, apeculiar turn of events struck like an annunciation: This is what I must do, this is what I’vegot to have. This is who I am … If not this vivid and sure, the call may have been more likegentle pushings in the stream in which you drifted unknowingly to a particular spot on thebank. Looking back, you sense that fate had a hand in it…. A calling may be postponed,avoided, intermittently missed.