the czar, a pillar ofmoral strength, would not give in. Alexander would have to serve as the leaderof this counterrevolutionary crusade. This was why Metternich had become soexcited by the czar's ideas about Naples and Spain and how he had interpretedthem.The czar was swept up in Metternich's enthusiasm: together they wouldstand firm against the radicals. Somehow, though, the result of their conversation was not a plan for Russia to invade Naples and Spain; indeed, Alexanderspeculated instead that it might not be the time to press the kings of thosecountries to reform their governments--that would just weaken both monarchs.For the time being, the leaders' energy should go into halting the revolutionarytide. In fact, the czar began to repent of some of his more liberal ideas, and heconfessed as much to Metternich. The conference ended with a statement ofgrand common purpose among the powers--much of its language the czar's--andan agreement that Austrian troops, not Russian ones, would return the king ofNaples to full power, then leave him to pursue the policies of his choice.After Alexander returned to Russia, Metternich wrote to praise him forleading the way. The czar wrote back in fervor: "We are engaged in a combatwith the realm of Satan. Ambassadors do not suffice for this task. Only thosewhom the Lord has placed at the head of their peoples may, if He gives Hisblessings, survive the contest...with this diabolic force." In fact, the czar wantedto go further; he had returned to the idea of marching his army into Spain to putdown the revolution there. Metternich responded that that would not benecessary--the British were handling the situation--but a conference next yearcould readdress the issue.In early 1821 another revolution broke out, this time in Piedmont, the oneItalian state outside Austrian control. The king was forced to abdicate. In thisinstance Metternich welcomed Russian intervention, and 90,000 Russian troopsbecame reserves in an Austrian army heading for Piedmont. A Russian militarypresence so close to their borders greatly dampened the spirits of the rebels andof their sympathizers throughout Italy--all those leftists who had seen the czar astheir friend and protector. They thought that no more.The Austrian army crushed the revolution within a few weeks. AtMetternich's request, the Russians politely withdrew their forces. The czar wasproud of his growing influence in Europe, but somehow he had embarked on thevery opposite of his original plans for a crusade: instead of being in the forefrontof the fight for progress and reform, he had become a guardian of the status quo,a conservative in the mold of Metternich himself. Those around him could notunderstand how this had happened.InterpretationPrince Metternich may have been history's most effective public practitioner ofpassive aggression. Other diplomats sometimes thought him cautious, evenweak, but in the end, as if by magic, he always got what he wanted. The key tohis success was his ability to hide his aggression to the point where it wasinvisible. Metternich was always careful to take the measure of his opponent. In thecase of Czar Alexander, he was dealing with a man governed by