is never wise to purposefully do without the benefits of having a mentor inyour life. You will waste valuable time in finding and shaping what you need toknow. But sometimes you have no choice. There is simply no one around who know. But sometimes you have no choice. There is simply no one around whocan fill the role, and you are left to your own devices. In such a case, you mustmake a virtue of necessity. That was the path taken by perhaps the greatesthistorical figure to ever attain mastery alone—Thomas Alva Edison (1847–1931).From a very early age Edison became used to doing things for himself, bynecessity. His family was poor, and by the age of twelve he had to earn money tohelp his parents. He sold newspapers on trains, and traveling around his nativeMichigan for his job, he developed an ardent curiosity about everything he saw.He wanted to know how things worked—machines, gadgets, anything withmoving parts. With no schools or teachers in his life, he turned to books,particularly anything he could find on science. He began to conduct his ownexperiments in the basement of his family home, and he taught himself how totake apart and fix any kind of watch. At the age of fifteen he apprenticed as atelegraph operator, then spent years traveling across the country plying his trade.He had no chance for a formal education, and nobody crossed his path whocould serve as a teacher or mentor. And so in lieu of that, in every city he spenttime in, he frequented the public library.One book that crossed his path played a decisive role in his life: MichaelFaraday’s two-volume Experimental Researches in Electricity. This bookbecame for Edison what The Improvement of the Mind had been for Faraday. Itgave him a systematic approach to science and a program for how to educatehimself in the field that now obsessed him—electricity. He could follow theexperiments laid out by the great Master of the field and absorb as well hisphilosophical approach to science. For the rest of his life, Faraday would remainhis role model.Through books, experiments, and practical experience at various jobs,Edison gave himself a rigorous education that lasted about ten years, up until thetime he became an inventor. What made this successful was his relentless desireto learn through whatever crossed his path, as well as his self-discipline. He haddeveloped the habit of overcoming his lack of an organized education by sheerdetermination and persistence. He worked harder than anyone else. Because hewas a consummate outsider and his mind had not been indoctrinated in anyschool of thought, he brought a fresh perspective to every problem he tackled.He turned his lack of formal direction into an advantage.If you are forced onto this path, you must follow Edison’s example bydeveloping extreme self-reliance. Under these circumstances, you become yourown teacher and mentor. You push yourself to learn from every possible source.You read more books than those who have a formal education, developing this You read more books than those who have a formal education, developing thisinto