made each official more dependent on White House support; the President in effect became the necessary ally and partnerof each. He lessened bureaucratic tendencies toward self-aggrandizement; hecurbed any attempt to gang up on him. He was, in effect, adapting the oldmethod of divide and conquer to his own purposes....... His technique wascuriously like that of Joseph Stalin, who used the overlapping delegation offunction, a close student of his methods has said, to prevent "any single chainof command from making major decisions without confronting other arms ofthe state's bureaucracy and thus bringing the issues into the open at a highlevel." Roosevelt, like Stalin, was a political administrator in the sense thathis first concern was power--albeit for very different ends.ROOSEVELT: THE LION AND THE FOX, JAMES MACGREGOR BURNS,1956The phenomenon is timeless: the soldier who feels he is losing the support ofthose around him is borne back into an intolerable primitive terror. He fears hewill face death alone. Many great military leaders have turned this terror intostrategy. Genghis Khan was a master at it: using the mobility of his Mongolcavalry to cut off his enemies' communications, he would isolate parts of theirarmies to make them feel alone and unprotected. He worked consciously toinstill terror. The divide-and-isolate strategy was also used to great effect byNapoleon and the guerrilla forces of Mao Tse-tung, among many others.Our nature has not changed. Lurking deep in even the most civilized amongus is the same basic fear of being alone, unsupported, and exposed to danger.People today are more dispersed and society is less cohesive than ever before,but that only increases our need to belong to a group, to have a strong network ofallies--to feel supported and protected on all sides. Take away this feeling andwe are returned to that primitive sensation of terror at our own vulnerability. Thedivide-and-conquer strategy has never been more effective than it is today: cutpeople off from their group--make them feel alienated, alone, and unprotected--and you weaken them enormously. That moment of weakness gives you greatpower to maneuver them into a corner, whether to seduce or to induce panic andretreat.Throughout the 1960s, one of Mao Tse-tung's most loyal and trustedfollowers was his minister of defense, Lin Biao. No one praised the Chineseruler more fulsomely than Lin. And yet by 1970 Mao had come to suspect thatthe flattery was a ruse to disguise his intentions: Lin was plotting to be hissuccessor. And what made Lin particularly dangerous was that, as minister ofdefense, he had accumulated allies in the military.Mao went to work with great subtlety. In public he went out of his way to support Lin, as if he, too, saw the minister as his successor. That soothed thenatural wariness of the plotter. At the same time, however, Mao also attackedand demoted some of Lin's most important supporters in the military. Lin was abit of a radical, veering left on most issues; Mao urged him to propose some ofhis more extreme ideas for restructuring the military, secretly knowing that theseideas would prove unpopular. Lin's support among