Russians to cometo his aid.A few days later, Mack began to feel horribly confused. The French wereproceeding through the Black Forest, and some of their cavalry had come quitefar. At the same time, though, word reached Mack of a large French armysomewhere to the north of his position. The reports were contradictory: somesaid this army was at Stuttgart, sixty miles northwest of Ulm; others had it moreto the east or even farther to the north or--quite close, near the Danube. Mackcould get no hard information, since the French cavalry that had come throughthe Black Forest blocked access to the north for reconnaissance. The Austriangeneral now faced what he feared most--uncertainty--and it was clouding hisability to think straight. Finally he ordered all of his troops back to Ulm, wherehe would concentrate his forces. Perhaps Napoleon intended to do battle at Ulm.At least Mack would have equal numbers.In early October, Austrian scouts were at last able to find out what was really going on, and it was a nightmare. A French army had crossed the Danube to theeast of Ulm, blocking Mack's way back to Austria and cutting off the Russians.Another army lay to the south, blocking his route to Italy. How could 70,000French soldiers appear in so many places at once? And move so fast? Gripped bypanic, Mack sent probes in every direction. On October 11 his men discovered aweak point: only a small French force barred the way north and east. There hecould push through and escape the French encirclement. He began to prepare forthe march. But two days later, when he was on the point of ordering the retreat,his scouts reported that a large French force had appeared overnight, blockingthe northeastern route as well.On October 20, finding out that the Russians had decided not to come to hisrescue, Mack surrendered. Over 60,000 Austrian soldiers were taken prisonerwith hardly a shot fired. It was one of the most splendidly bloodless victories inhistory.In the next few months, Napoleon's army turned east to deal with theRussians and remaining Austrians, culminating in his spectacular victory atAusterlitz. Meanwhile Mack languished in an Austrian prison, sentenced to twoyears for his role in this humiliating defeat. There he racked his brains (losinghis sanity in the process, some said): Where had his plan gone wrong? How hadan army appeared out of nowhere to his east, so easily swallowing him up? Hehad never seen anything like it, and he was trying to figure it out to the end ofhis days.The fact that, historically speaking, those armies have been most successfulwhich did not turn their troops into automatons, did not attempt to controleverything from the top, and allowed subordinate commanders considerablelatitude has been abundantly demonstrated. The Roman centurions andmilitary tribunes; Napoleon's marshals; Moltke's army commanders;Ludendorff's storm detachments...--all these are examples, each within itsown stage of technological development, of the way things were done in someof the most successful military forces ever.COMMAND IN WAR, MARTIN VAN CREVELD, 1985Interpretation History should not judge General Mack too harshly, for theFrench armies he