his head,and oracular powers for reading the future. He did all of this in the deserts of North Africa where it was nearly impossible to get any clear sense of the terrain.Rommel’s power, however, was not occult in nature. He simply had a muchdeeper knowledge than other generals of all of the aspects of battle. Heconstantly flew over the desert in his own plane, gaining a bird’s-eye feel for theterrain. He was a trained mechanic, and so had a complete knowledge of histanks and what he could expect of them. He studied in depth the psychology ofthe opposing army and its generals. He interacted with almost all of his soldiers,and had a clear sense of how far he could push them. Whatever he studied, hedid so with incredible intensity and depth. A point was reached where all ofthese details became internalized. They fused together in his brain, giving him afeel for the whole picture and a sense of this interactive dynamic.The ability to have this intuitive grasp of the whole and feel this dynamic issimply a function of time. Since it has been shown that the brain is literallyaltered after approximately 10,000 hours of practice, these powers would be theresult of a transformation that happens in the brain after some 20,000 hours andbeyond. With this much practice and experience, all kinds of connections havebeen formed in the brain between different forms of knowledge. Masters thushave a sense of how everything interacts organically, and they can intuit patternsor solutions in an instant. This fluid form of thinking does not occur through astep-by-step process, but rather comes in flashes and insights as the brain makessudden connections between disparate forms of knowledge, causing us to sensethe dynamic in real time.Some people like to imagine that such intuitions do operate sequentially, butsimply happen too fast for the thinker to see the steps. This reasoning comesfrom the desire to reduce every form of intelligence to the same rational level.But with a discovery like the theory of simple relativity, if Albert Einsteinhimself could not begin to reconstruct the steps in retrospect that led to hisinsight on the relativity of time, then why should it be imagined that such stepsexist? We must trust the experience and descriptions of these Masters, all peoplewith high levels of self-awareness and analytical skills.It would be a misconception, however, to imagine that Masters are simplyfollowing their intuitions and moving beyond rational thinking. First, it isthrough all of their hard work, the depth of their knowledge, and thedevelopment of their analytical skills that they reach this higher form ofintelligence. Second, when they experience this intuition or insight, theyinvariably subject it to a high degree of reflection and reasoning. In science, theymust spend months or years verifying their intuitions. In the arts, they must workout the ideas that come to them intuitively and rationally shape them into a form.This is hard for us to imagine, because we find intuition and rationality mutually This is hard for us to imagine, because we find intuition and