untouched in his laboratory. Whenhe returned to the work, he injected the cultures into chickens and was surprisedwhen they all recovered easily from the disease. Figuring these cultures had losttheir virulence because of the time factor, he ordered some new varieties, whichhe injected immediately into the same chickens and into some new ones as well.The new ones all died, as expected, but all of the old chickens survived.Many doctors in the past had witnessed similar phenomena, but had nottaken notice or had refused to contemplate its meaning. Pasteur had such wideand deep knowledge of the field that the survival of the chickens instantly caughthis attention. In thinking deeply about what it could mean, he realized he hadstumbled upon a whole new practice in medicine—the inoculation of the body stumbled upon a whole new practice in medicine—the inoculation of the bodyagainst disease by injecting small doses of the actual disease. The wideness ofhis searches and the openness of his spirit allowed him to make this connectionand “random” discovery. As Pasteur himself commented, “Chance favors onlythe prepared mind.”Such serendipitous discoveries are extremely common in science and intechnological inventions. The list would include, among hundreds of others, thediscoveries by Wilhelm Röntgen of X-rays and Alexander Fleming of penicillin,and the invention of the printing press by Johannes Gutenberg. Perhaps one ofthe most illuminating of all such examples occurred with the great inventorThomas Edison. He had been working long and hard on improving themechanics of the roll of paper as it moved through the telegraph and recordedthe various dots and dashes. The work was not going well, and what particularlybothered him was the sound the machine made as the paper passed through—itgave off “a light, musical, rhythmical sound, resembling human talk heardindistinctly.”He wanted to get rid of this sound somehow, but over the course of the nextfew months as he let go of the work on the telegraph, the whirring noisecontinued to haunt him. One day, as he heard it yet again in his head, anastounding thought occurred to him—he might have inadvertently hit upon away to record sound and the human voice. He spent the next few monthsimmersing himself in the science of sound, which led to his first experiments oncreating a phonograph that would record the human voice, using a very similartechnology to the telegraph.This discovery shows us the essence of the creative mind. In such a mind,every stimulus that enters the brain is processed, turned over, and reevaluated.Nothing is taken at face value. A whirring sound is never neutral, never merely asound, but something to interpret, a possibility, a sign. Dozens of suchpossibilities lead nowhere, but to an open and fluid mind they are not only worthconsidering, but are a constant pleasure to investigate. Perception itself becomesa stimulating exercise in thinking.One reason that serendipity plays such a large role in discoveries andinventions is that our minds are limited. We cannot explore all avenues andimagine every possibility. Nobody could have come upon the invention of thephonograph in Edison’s time by a rational process