for such analogies toreframe and expand your ideas.C. ALTERNATE THE MIND THROUGH “THE CURRENT”In 1832, as Charles Darwin voyaged around the coastline of South America and In 1832, as Charles Darwin voyaged around the coastline of South America andtraveled into the interior, he began to take note of several strange phenomena—bones of animals long extinct, marine fossils near the top of mountains in Peru,and animals on islands that were similar and yet quite different from theirmainland counterparts. In his notebooks, he began to speculate on what all thiscould mean. Clearly, the earth appeared to be much older than indicated in theBible, and it became increasingly difficult for him to imagine that all of life wascreated at once. Based on these continuing speculations, he began to look moreclosely at the plant and animal life he was observing. In doing so, he took note ofeven more anomalies in nature and tried to find a pattern among them. When hevisited the Galápagos Islands near the end of his voyage, he witnessed so muchvariety of life in such a small area that he finally saw the pattern—the idea ofevolution itself.For the next twenty years Darwin expanded upon the process that he startedas a young man. He speculated on how variety within species might actuallyoccur, and to test out his ideas he began to keep and breed different types ofpigeons. The theory of evolution he was developing depended on the movementof plants and animals across wide expanses of the globe. This was easier toimagine with animals than with plants—for instance, how did such richvegetation end up on relatively young volcanic islands? Most believed it wasfrom an act of God. And so Darwin began a series of experiments, soakingvarious seeds in salt water to see how long they could survive in such an elementand still germinate. The results proved they could last longer than he hadimagined. Considering ocean currents, he calculated that many varieties of seedscould travel more than 1,000 miles in some forty days and still germinate.As his ideas began to solidify, he decided to intensify his research byspending eight years studying many species of one type of crustacean, thebarnacle, in order to prove or disprove his speculations. This research ended upvalidating his ideas and adding some new wrinkles. Certain that he haddiscovered something meaningful after all this work, he finally published hisresults on an evolutionary process that he called natural selection.The theory of evolution as formulated by Charles Darwin represents one ofthe most astounding achievements of human creative thinking, and is a testamentto the powers of the mind. Evolution is not something that can be seen with theeyes. It depends on a powerful use of the imagination—to imagine what couldhappen on Earth in the course of millions upon millions of years, a period oftime that is so astoundingly long we have no way of really conceptualizing it. Italso required the ability to imagine a process that could occur on its own,without the guidance of a spiritual force. Darwin’s theory could only have been deduced