ideas and development flourish more naturally in thisshortened time frame. Having an efficient apprenticeship, we can make the mostof our youthful energy and our creative potential.What makes the mentor-protégé dynamic so intense and so productive is theemotional quality of the relationship. By nature, mentors feel emotionallyinvested in your education. This can be for several reasons: perhaps they like you, or see in you a younger version of themselves, and can relive their ownyouth through you; perhaps they recognize in you a special talent that will givethem pleasure to cultivate; perhaps you have something important to offer them,mostly your youthful energy and willingness to work hard. Being useful to themcan build a powerful emotional connection to you over time. On your part, youalso feel emotionally drawn to them—admiration for their achievements, adesire to model yourself after them, and so on. Mentors find this immenselyflattering.With this two-way emotional connection you both open up to each other in away that goes beyond the usual teacher-student dynamic. When you admirepeople, you become more susceptible to absorbing and imitating everything theydo. You pay deeper attention. Your mirror neurons are more engaged, allowingfor learning that involves more than the superficial transmission of knowledge,but also includes a style and way of thinking that is often powerful. On the otherside, because of the emotional bond, mentors will tend to divulge more of theirsecrets than they would to others. You must not be afraid of this emotionalcomponent to the relationship. It is precisely what makes you learn more deeplyand efficiently.Think of it this way: the process of learning resembles the medieval practiceof alchemy. In alchemy, the goal was to find a way to transform base metals orstones into gold. To effect this, alchemists searched for what was known as thephilosopher’s stone—a substance that would make dead stones or metals comealive and organically change their chemical composition into gold. Although thephilosopher’s stone was never discovered, it has profound relevance as ametaphor. The knowledge that you need to become a Master exists out there inthe world—it is like a base metal or dead stone. This knowledge needs to beheated up and come alive within you, transforming itself into something activeand relevant to your circumstances. The mentor is like the philosopher’s stone—through direct interaction with someone of experience, you are able to quicklyand efficiently heat up and animate this knowledge, turning it into somethinglike gold.The story of Michael Faraday is the ultimate illustration of this alchemicalprocess. His life seemed to progress almost through magic—falling into the onejob where he could read books, learn about science, and impress exactly the rightperson with his notes, leading to a connection to the ultimate mentor, HumphryDavy. But there was a logic behind all of this apparent magic and good fortune.As a young man he possessed an intense energy and hunger for knowledge. Akind of inner radar directed him to the one bookshop in the area. Although it was pure luck that the book Improvement of the Mind fell into his hands, it tooksomeone with such focus