at a collegein Madras, came upon a book called Eye and Brain, written by an eminentprofessor of neuropsychology, Richard Gregory. (For more on Ramachandran’searly years, see page 32.) The book excited him—the style of writing, theanecdotes, the provocative experiments he recounted. Inspired by the book,Ramachandran did his own experiments on optics, and soon realized that he was better suited for the field than medicine. In 1974 he was admitted into the PhDProgram at Cambridge University, in visual perception.Ramachandran had been raised on stories of the great English scientists ofthe nineteenth century, and the almost romantic quest for truth that scienceseemed to represent. He loved the part that speculation played in the greattheories and discoveries of men such as Faraday and Darwin. He imagined itwould be somewhat similar at Cambridge, but to his surprise the students andprofessors tended to treat science as a kind of nine-to-five job; it was acompetitive, cutthroat, almost corporate environment. He began to feel gloomyand alone in a strange country.Then one day Richard Gregory himself, a professor at Bristol University,came to Cambridge to give a lecture. Ramachandran was mesmerized—it waslike something right out of the pages of Humphry Davy. Gregory performedthought-provoking demonstrations of his ideas on stage; he had a flair for dramaand a great sense of humor. This is what science should be like, Ramachandranthought. He went up after the talk and introduced himself. They had an instantrapport. He mentioned to Gregory an optical experiment he had been pondering,and the professor was intrigued. He invited Ramachandran to visit Bristol and tostay in his home, where they could try out his idea together. Ramachandran tookup the offer, and from the moment he saw Gregory’s house he knew he hadfound his mentor—it was like something out of Sherlock Holmes, full ofVictorian instruments, fossils, and skeletons. Gregory was precisely the kind ofeccentric Ramachandran could identify with. Soon he was commuting to Bristolregularly experiments. He had found a lifelong mentor to inspire and guide him,and over the years he would come to adapt much of Gregory’s style ofspeculation and experiment.Growing up in Japan in the late 1970s, Yoky Matsuoka felt like an outsider. Asdiscussed in chapter 1 (pages 33–34), she liked to do things her own way in acountry that esteemed social cohesion and conformity above everything else.When she decided to take up tennis seriously at the age of eleven, she used theplayers John McEnroe and Andre Agassi as her role models, consummate rebelsin what had been a very genteel sport. Later, when she moved to the UnitedStates and began attending university, she brought with her the same need to goher own way in whatever she did. If there was a field no one was studying, itexcited her. Following this instinct she got into the then-esoteric field ofrobotics, and was admitted to the PhD program at MIT.There, for the first time in her life, she met someone of her own temperament—Rodney Brooks, professor of robotics at MIT, and the bad boy of the —Rodney Brooks, professor of robotics at MIT,