when he realized thathis own life and his own failed attempts to write the great novel was actually thesubject he was looking for, it all poured out of him and into one of the greatestnovels ever written, In Search of Lost Time.This is The Primary Law of the Creative Dynamic that you must engravedeeply in your mind and never forget: your emotional commitment to what youare doing will be translated directly into your work. If you go at your work withhalf a heart, it will show in the lackluster results and in the laggard way in whichyou reach the end. If you are doing something primarily for money and without areal emotional commitment, it will translate into something that lacks a soul andthat has no connection to you. You may not see this, but you can be sure that thepublic will feel it and that they will receive your work in the same lacklusterspirit it was created in. If you are excited and obsessive in the hunt, it will showin the details. If your work comes from a place deep within, its authenticity willbe communicated. This applies equally to science and business as to the arts.Your creative task may not rise to the same obsessive level as it did for Edison,but it must have a degree of this obsessiveness or your efforts will be doomed.You must never simply embark on any creative endeavor in your field, placingfaith in your own brilliance to see it through. You must make the right, theperfect choice for your energies and your inclinations.To aid in this process, it is often wise to choose something that appeals toyour sense of unconventionality and calls up latent feelings of rebelliousness.Perhaps what you want to invent or discover is being ignored or ridiculed byothers. The work that you envision will stir up controversy and ruffle somefeathers. In opting for something that has deep personal appeal to you, you willnaturally move in an unorthodox direction. Try to ally this with a desire tosubvert conventional paradigms and go against the grain. The sense of having subvert conventional paradigms and go against the grain. The sense of havingenemies or doubters can serve as a powerful motivating device and fill you withan added creative energy and focus.There are two things to keep in mind: First, the task that you choose must berealistic. The knowledge and skills you have gained must be eminently suited topulling it off. To reach your goal you may have to learn a few new things, butyou must have mastered the basics and possess a solid enough grasp of the fieldso that your mind can focus on higher matters. On the other hand, it is alwaysbest to choose a task that is slightly above you, one that might be consideredambitious on your part. This is a corollary of the Law of the Creative Dynamic—the higher the goal, the more energy you will call up from deep within. Youwill rise to the challenge because you have to, and will discover creative