part of this universalizing process, extending your own knowledge toother branches, further and further out. The rich ideas that will come from such aquest will be their own reward.REVERSALThe reversal to mastery is to deny its existence or its importance, and thereforethe need to strive for it in any way. But such a reversal can only lead to feelingsof powerlessness and disappointment. This reversal leads to enslavement to whatwe shall call the false self.Your false self is the accumulation of all the voices you have internalizedfrom other people—parents and friends who want you to conform to their ideas of what you should be like and what you should do, as well as societal pressuresto adhere to certain values that can easily seduce you. It also includes the voiceof your own ego, which constantly tries to protect you from unflattering truths.This self talks to you in clear words, and when it comes to mastery, it says thingslike, “Mastery is for the geniuses, the exceptionally talented, the freaks of nature.I was simply not born that way.” Or it says, “Mastery is ugly and immoral. It isfor those who are ambitious and egotistical. Better to accept my lot in life and towork to help other people instead of enriching myself.” Or it might say,“Success is all luck. Those we call Masters are only people who were at the rightplace at the right time. I could easily be in their place if I had a lucky break.” Orit might also say, “To work for so long at something that requires so much painand effort, why bother? Better to enjoy my short life and do what I can to getby.”As you must know by now, these voices do not speak the truth. Mastery isnot a question of genetics or luck, but of following your natural inclinations andthe deep desire that stirs you from within. Everyone has such inclinations. Thisdesire within you is not motivated by egotism or sheer ambition for power, bothof which are emotions that get in the way of mastery. It is instead a deepexpression of something natural, something that marked you at birth as unique.In following your inclinations and moving toward mastery, you make a greatcontribution to society, enriching it with discoveries and insights, and makingthe most of the diversity in nature and among human society. It is in fact theheight of selfishness to merely consume what others create and to retreat into ashell of limited goals and immediate pleasures. Alienating yourself from yourinclinations can only lead to pain and disappointment in the long run, and asense that you have wasted something unique. This pain will be expressed inbitterness and envy, and you will not recognize the true source of yourdepression.Your true self does not speak in words or banal phrases. Its voice comesfrom deep within you, from the substrata of your psyche, from somethingembedded physically within you. It emanates from your uniqueness, and itcommunicates through sensations and powerful desires that seem to transcendyou. You cannot ultimately understand why you are drawn