their seventies andbeyond. Among such types are the Zen Master and artist Hakuin, who madepaintings in his sixties that are now considered among the greatest works of histime, remarkable for the spontaneity of expression they reveal. Another exampleis the Spanish filmmaker Luis Buñuel, whose surrealist films seemed to getricher and more startling as he reached his sixties and seventies. But thequintessence of this phenomenon would have to be Benjamin Franklin.Franklin had always been an acute observer of natural phenomena, but thesepowers only increased with the years. In his seventies and on into his eighties hecontinued with a series of speculations that are now considered uncannily aheadof his time—including advanced ideas on health and medicine, weather, physics,geophysics, evolution, the use of aircraft for military and commercial purposes, geophysics, evolution, the use of aircraft for military and commercial purposes,and more. As he aged, he applied his renowned inventiveness to his growingphysical weaknesses. Trying to improve his eyesight and quality of life, heinvented bifocals. Unable to reach books on the tops of his shelves, he inventedan extendible mechanical arm. Needing copies of his own work and not wantingto leave his house, he invented a rolling press that could make an accurate copyof a document in less than two minutes. In his last years, he had insights intopolitics and the future of America that made people think of him as a seer, assomeone with magical abilities. William Pierce, a delegate to the ConstitutionalConvention, met Franklin near the end of his life and wrote: “Dr. Franklin iswell known to be the greatest philosopher of the present age; all the operationsof nature he seems to understand…. He is eighty-two years old, and possesses anactivity of mind equal to a youth of twenty-five years of age.”It is interesting to speculate what depths of understanding such Masterscould have reached if they had lived even longer. Perhaps in the future, with lifeexpectancy increasing, we will witness examples of the Benjamin Franklinvariety stretching to even more advanced ages.The Return to RealityPeople can argue endlessly about what constitutes reality, but let us start ourdefinition with a simple, undeniable fact: some 4 billion years ago, life began onthis planet in the shape of simple cells. These cells, perhaps even one cell inparticular, were the common ancestors to all life forms that followed. From thatsingle source, various branches of life emerged. Some 1.2 billion years ago thereappeared the first multicellular creatures; 600 million years ago there emergedperhaps the greatest development of all—organisms with a central nervoussystem, the starting point that eventually led to the brains we now possess. Fromthe Cambrian explosion of life some 500 million years ago came the first simpleanimals, followed by the first vertebrates. Some 360 million years ago we seethe first traces on land of amphibious creatures, and 120 million years ago thefirst mammals. Branching off in a new mammalian direction about 60 millionyears ago, we see signs of the earliest primates from whom we are directlydescended. The earliest human ancestors arrived some 6 million years ago, and 4million