no time to prepare, they quicklysent out an army, forcing Pyrrhus to make do with what he had and he set off toface them. The two armies met near the town of Heraclea. Pyrrhus and his troopswere outnumbered and at one point were on the verge of defeat, when heunleashed his secret weapon: his elephants, with their massive weight, loud,fearsome trumpeting, and soldiers on top, firing arrows down at will. TheRomans had never faced elephants in battle before, and panic spread amongthem, turning the tide of the fight. Soon the disciplined Roman legions were inheadlong retreat."The Eagle" had won a great victory. His fame spread across the Italian peninsula; he was indeed the reincarnation of Alexander the Great. Now othercities sent him reinforcements, more than making up for his losses at Heraclea.But Pyrrhus was worried. He had lost many veterans in the battle, including keygenerals. More important, the strength and discipline of the Roman legions hadimpressed him--they were like no other troops he had faced. He decided to try tonegotiate a peaceful settlement with the Romans, offering to share the peninsulawith them. At the same time, though, he marched on Rome, to give thenegotiations urgency and to make it clear that unless the Romans sued for peace,they would face him again.Meanwhile the defeat at Heraclea had had a powerful effect on the Romans,who were not easily intimidated and did not take defeat lightly. Immediatelyafter the battle, a call went out for recruits, and young men responded in droves.The Romans proudly rejected the offer of a settlement; they would never shareItaly.The two armies met again near the town of Asculum, not far from Rome, inthe spring of 279 B.C. This time their numbers were about equal. The first day ofbattle was fierce, and once again the Romans seemed to have the edge, but onthe second day Pyrrhus, a strategic master, managed to lure the Roman legionsonto terrain better suited to his own style of maneuvering, and he gained theadvantage. As was his wont, near the end of the day he personally led a violentcharge at the heart of the Roman legions, elephants in front. The Romansscattered, and Pyrrhus was once again victorious.King Pyrrhus had now scaled the heights, yet he felt only gloom andforeboding. His losses had been terrible; the ranks of the generals he dependedon were decimated, and he himself had been badly wounded. At the same time,the Romans seemed inexhaustible, undaunted by their defeat. Whencongratulated on his victory at Asculum, he replied, "If we defeat the Romans inone more such battle, we shall be totally ruined."Pyrrhus, however, was already ruined. His losses at Asculum were too largeto be quickly replaced, and his remaining forces were too few to fight theRomans again. His Italian campaign was over.InterpretationFrom the story of King Pyrrhus and his famous lament after the Battle ofAsculum comes the expression "Pyrrhic victory," signifying a triumph that is asgood as a defeat, for it comes at too great a cost. The victor is too exhausted toexploit his win,