by forcing or enticing it to divide. And the best way to make anenemy divide is to occupy the center.Think of battle or conflict as existing on a kind of chessboard. Thechessboard's center can be physical--an actual place like Marathon--or moresubtle and psychological: the levers of power within a group, the support of acritical ally, a troublemaker at the eye of the storm. Take the center of thechessboard and the enemy will naturally break into parts, trying to hit you frommore than one side. These smaller parts are now manageable, can be defeated indetail or forced to divide yet again. And once something large is divided, it isprone to further division, to being splintered into nothingness.As your army faces the enemy and the enemy appears powerful, try to attackthe enemy in one particular spot. If you are successful in crumbling that oneparticular spot, leave that spot and attack the next, and so on and so forth, as if you were going down a winding road.--Miyamoto Musashi (1584-1645)ATTACKING THE JOINTSAs a young man, Samuel Adams (1722-1803) of colonial-era Boston developeda dream: the American colonies, he believed, should one day win completeindependence from England and establish a government based on the writings ofthe English philosopher John Locke. According to Locke, a government shouldreflect the will of its citizens; a government that did not do so had lost its right toexist. Adams had inherited a brewery from his father, but he did not care aboutbusiness, and while the brewery veered toward bankruptcy, he spent his timewriting articles on Locke and the need for independence. He was an excellentwriter, good enough to get his articles published, but few took his ideasseriously: he seemed to rant, to be somewhat out of touch with the world. He hadthat obsessive glint in the eye that makes people think you're a crackpot. Theproblem was that the ties between England and America were strong; thecolonists did have their grievances, but there was hardly a clamor forindependence. Adams began to have bouts of depression; his self-appointedmission seemed hopeless.The British desperately needed money from the colonies, and in 1765 theypassed a law called the Stamp Act: to make any document legal, Americanbusinesses would be required to purchase and affix to it a stamp of the Britishcrown. The colonists were growing ticklish about the taxes they paid to England;they saw the Stamp Act as a new kind of tax in disguise, and a few disgruntledvoices were raised in urban taverns. Even so, for most the issue seemed minor--but Adams saw the Stamp Act as the opportunity he had been waiting for hiswhole life. It gave him something tangible to attack, and he flooded newspapersthroughout the colonies with editorials, all fulminating against the act. Withoutconsulting the colonies, he wrote, England was imposing a new kind of tax, andthis, in a memorable phrase, was taxation without representation, the first steptoward tyranny.A novice chess player soon learns that it is a good idea to control the centerof the board. This recognition will recur, in novel