the army, thesecond step is dangerous, and the third becomes fatal.--Frederick the Great (1712-86), letter to a generalKEYS TO WARFAREWe humans like to see ourselves as rational creatures. We imagine that whatseparates us from animals is the ability to think and reason. But that is onlypartly true: what distinguishes us from animals just as much is our capacity tolaugh, to cry, to feel a range of emotions. We are in fact emotional creatures aswell as rational ones, and although we like to think we govern our actionsthrough reason and thought, what most often dictates our behavior is the emotionwe feel in the moment.We maintain the illusion that we are rational through the routine of our dailyaffairs, which helps us to keep things calm and apparently controlled. Our mindsseem rather strong when we're following our routines. But place any of us in anadverse situation and our rationality vanishes; we react to pressure by growingfearful, impatient, confused. Such moments reveal us for the emotional creatureswe are: under attack, whether by a known enemy or unpredictably by acolleague, our response is dominated by feelings of anger, sadness, betrayal. Only with great effort can we reason our way through these periods and respondrationally--and our rationality rarely lasts past the next attack.Understand: your mind is weaker than your emotions. But you becomeaware of this weakness only in moments of adversity--precisely the time whenyou need strength. What best equips you to cope with the heat of battle is neithermore knowledge nor more intellect. What makes your mind stronger, and moreable to control your emotions, is internal discipline and toughness.No one can teach you this skill; you cannot learn it by reading about it. Likeany discipline, it can come only through practice, experience, even a littlesuffering. The first step in building up presence of mind is to see the need for it--to want it badly enough to be willing to work for it. Historical figures who standout for their presence of mind--Alexander the Great, Ulysses S. Grant, WinstonChurchill--acquired it through adversity, through trial and error. They were inpositions of responsibility in which they had to develop this quality or sink.Although these men may have been blessed with an unusual amount of personalfortitude, they had to work hard to strengthen this into presence of mind.The first quality of a General-in-Chief is to have a cool head which receivesexact impressions of things, which never gets heated, which never allowsitself to be dazzled, or intoxicated, by good or bad news. The successivesimultaneous sensations which he receives in the course of a day must beclassified, and must occupy the correct places they merit to fill, becausecommon sense and reason are the results of the comparison of a number ofsensations each equally well considered. There are certain men who, onaccount of their moral and physical constitution, paint mental pictures out ofeverything: however exalted be their reason, their will, their courage, andwhatever good qualities they may possess, nature has not fitted them tocommand armies, nor to direct great operations of war.NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, 1769-1821The