suffocation. Over the centuriesthis reflex has become more psychological: the feeling that we have options in asituation, a future with prospects, translates into something like the feeling ofopen space. Our minds thrive on the sense that there is possibility and strategicroom to maneuver.Conversely, the sense of psychological enclosure is deeply disturbing to us,often making us overreact. When someone or something encircles us--narrowing our options, besieging us from all sides--we lose control of our emotions andmake the kinds of mistakes that render the situation more hopeless. In history'sgreat military sieges, the greater danger almost always comes from the panic andconfusion within. Unable to see what is happening beyond the siege, losingcontact with the outside world, the defenders also lose their grip on reality. Ananimal that cannot observe the world around it is doomed. When all you can seeare Zulus closing in, you succumb to panic and confusion.The battles of daily life occur not on a map but in a kind of abstract spacedefined by people's ability to maneuver, act against you, limit your power, andcut into your time to respond. Give your opponents any room in this abstract orpsychological space and they will exploit it, no matter how powerful you are orhow brilliant your strategies--so make them feel surrounded. Shrink theirpossibilities of action and close off their escape routes. Just as the inhabitants ofa city under siege may slowly lose their minds, your opponents will bemaddened by their lack of room to maneuver against you.There are many ways to envelop your opponents, but perhaps the simplest isto put whatever strength or advantage you naturally have to maximum use in astrategy of enclosure.In his struggle to gain control of the chaotic American oil industry in the1870s, John D. Rockefeller--founder and president of Standard Oil--worked firstto gain a monopoly on the railroads, which were then oil's main transport. Nexthe moved to gain control over the pipelines that connected the refineries to therailroads. Independent oil producers responded by banding together to fund apipeline of their own that would run from Pennsylvania to the coast, bypassingthe need for railroads and Rockefeller's network of pipelines. Rockefeller triedbuying up the land that lay in the path of the project, being built by a companycalled Tidewater, but his opponents worked around him, building a zigzagpipeline all the way to the sea.Rockefeller was faced with a classic paradigm in war: a motivated enemywas utilizing every gap in his defenses to avoid his control, adjusting andlearning how to fight him along the way. His solution was an envelopingmaneuver. First, Rockefeller built his own pipeline to the sea, a larger one thanTidewater's. Then he began a campaign to buy up stock in the Tidewatercompany, gaining a minority interest in it and working from within to damage itscredit and stir dissension. He initiated a price war, undermining interest in theTidewater pipeline. And he purchased refineries before they could becomeTidewater clients. By 1882 his envelopment was complete: Tidewater was forcedto work out a deal that gave Standard Oil even more control over the