felt different—he had finally penetrated to the core of Shoju’s koan!He understood it from the inside out! It was alive within him! Everything fellinto place and he was certain that he had finally reached enlightenment, theworld appearing to him in a totally new guise. He began clapping his hands andscreaming with delight. For the first time he felt the weight of all of his anxietieslifted from him.He ran all the way back to Shoju, who recognized right away what hadhappened to his pupil. This time the Master was gentle with him, strokingHakuin’s back with his fan. He finally revealed to his pupil his thoughts—fromthe first time they had met, he had recognized in Hakuin the necessaryingredients for true learning. He was fierce, determined, and hungry forenlightenment. The problem with all students, he said, is that they inevitablystop somewhere. They hear an idea and they hold on to it until it becomes dead;they want to flatter themselves that they know the truth. But true Zen neverstops, never congeals into such truths. That is why everyone must constantly bepushed to the abyss, starting over and feeling their utter worthlessness as astudent. Without suffering and doubts, the mind will come to rest on clichés andstay there, until the spirit dies as well. Not even enlightenment is enough. Youmust continually start over and challenge yourself.Shoju had faith that Hakuin would continue in this process because he wastenacious. Zen was dying throughout Japan. He wanted Hakuin to stay with himand serve as his successor. He believed the young man would someday beresponsible for reviving the religion. In the end, however, Hakuin could not tamehis restlessness. After eight months he left Shoju, certain he would return assoon as he could. But the years went by, and once again he fell into new doubtsand anxieties. He wandered from temple to temple, experiencing continual highsand lows.At the age of forty-one, he finally had his ultimate and deepest moment ofenlightenment, bringing with it a mind-set that would not leave him for the restof his life. At this point, all of the ideas and teachings of Shoju came back to himas if he had heard them yesterday, and he realized that Shoju was the only true as if he had heard them yesterday, and he realized that Shoju was the only trueMaster he had ever known. He wanted to return to thank him, but the Master haddied some five years earlier. His way to repay him was to become a teacherhimself, keeping alive his Master’s teachings. In the end, it was indeed Hakuinwho rescued Zen practice from the decay it had fallen into, just as Shoju hadpredicted. To reach mastery requires some toughness and a constant connection to reality.As an apprentice, it can be hard for us to challenge ourselves on our own in theproper way, and to get a clear sense of our own weaknesses. The times that welive in make this even harder. Developing discipline through challengingsituations and perhaps suffering along the way are no longer values that