especially when combined with real excellence. Heaven that grants perfection, provides also the means of display; for one without the other were abortive. Skill is however needed for display . Even excellence depends on circumstances and is not always opportune. Ostentation is out of place when it is out of time. More than any other quality it should be free of any aﬀectation. This is its rock of oﬀence, for it then borders on vanity and so on contempt: it must be moderate to avoid being vulgar, and any excess is despised by the wise. At times it consists in a sort of mute eloquence, a careless display of excellence, for a wise concealment is often the most eﬀective boast, since the very withdrawal from view piques curiosity to the highest. 'Tis a ﬁne subtlety too not to display one's excellence all at one time, but to grant stolen glances at it, more and more as time goes on. Each exploit should be the pledge of a greater, and applause at the ﬁrst should only die away in expectation of its sequel. cclxxviii Avoid Notoriety in all Things. Even excellences become defects if they become notorious. Notoriety arises from singularity , which is always blamed: he that is singular is left severely alone. Even beauty is discredited by coxcombry , which oﬀends by the very notice it attracts. Still more does this apply to discreditable singularities. Y et among the wicked there are some that seek to be known for seeking novelties in vice so as to attain to the fame of infamy . Even in matters of the intellect want of moderation may degenerate into loquacity . cclxxix Do not contradict the Contradicter . Y ou have to distinguish whether the contra-diction comes from cunning or from vulgarity . It is not always obstinacy , but may be artfulness. Notice this: for in the ﬁrst case one may get into diﬃculties, in the other into danger. Caution is never more needed than against spies. There is no such countercheck to the picklock of the mind as to leave the key of caution in the lock. cclxxx Be Trustworthy . Honourable dealing is at an end: trusts are denied: few keep their word: the greater the service, the poorer the reward: that is the way with all the world nowadays. There are whole nations inclined to false dealing: with some treachery has always to be feared, with others breach of promise, with others deceit. Y et this bad behaviour of others should rather be a warning to us than an example. The fear is that the sight of such unworthy behaviour should override our integrity . But a man of honour should never forget what he is because he sees what others are. cclxxxi Find Favour with Men of Sense. The tepid Y es of a remarkable man is worth more than all the applause of the vulgar: you cannot make a meal oﬀ the smoke of chaﬀ. The wise