as Louis dropped the Swiss. It isin any case a mistake to become dependent on one person. Finally, wesometimes choose those who seem the friendliest, who we think will be loyal.Our emotions lead us astray.THE FOX AND THE BILLY-GOATA fox, having fallen into a well, was faced with the prospect of being stuckthere. But then a billy-goat came along to that same well because he wasthirsty and saw the fox. He asked him if the water was good. The fox decidedto put a brave face on it and gave a tremendous speech about how wonderfulthe water was down there, so very excellent. So the billy-goat climbed downthe well, thinking only of his thirst. When he had a good drink, he asked thefox what he thought was the best way to get back up again. The fox said:"Well, I have a very good way to do that. Of course, it will mean our workingtogether. If you just push your front feet up against the wall and hold yourhorns up in the air as high as you can, I will climb up on to them, get out, andthen I can pull you up behind me." The billy-goat willingly consented to thisidea, and the fox briskly clambered up the legs, the shoulders, and finally thehorns of his companion. He found himself at the mouth of the well, pulledhimself out, and immediately scampered off. The billy-goat shouted after him,reproaching him for breaking their agreement of mutual assistance.... FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C.Understand: the perfect allies are those who give you something you cannotget on your own. They have the resources you lack. They will do your dirtywork for you or fight your battles. Like the Swiss, they are not always the mostobvious or the most powerful. Be creative and look for allies to whom you inturn have something to offer as well, creating a link of self-interest. To lose suchallies of convenience will not destroy you or make you feel betrayed. You mustthink of them as temporary tools. When you no longer need such tools, there is no love lost in dumping them.The forces of a powerful ally can be useful and good to those who haverecourse to them...but are perilous to those who become dependent on them.--Niccolo Machiavelli, The Prince (1513)FALSE ALLIANCESIn November 1966, Murray Bowen, a professor of clinical psychiatry atGeorgetown University and one of the world's most influential family therapists,faced a brewing crisis within his own family back home in Waverly, Tennessee.Bowen was the oldest of five children. His family had operated an importantbusiness in Waverly for several generations. The third-oldest sibling, a brothernicknamed June, had been running the business for some time. Continuallyoverworked and feeling under-appreciated, June was now asking for acontrolling interest in the business. Their father supported him, their mother didnot. Members of the extended family were taking sides. The situation was tense.At the same time, a death in the family of June's wife had made her sodespondent that it was beginning to affect her husband's health. A