months hewould shepherd these novices and help guide them to the point of launchingtheir idea. For this he would take 10 percent from any successful startup. Itwould be like an apprenticeship system for tech founders, but it really hadanother purpose—it would serve as a crash course for him in the investingbusiness. He would be a lousy first investor and his pupils would be lousyentrepreneurs, making them a perfect match.Yet again he recruited Robert Morris to join him in the business. A couple ofweeks into the training, however, he and Morris realized that they were actually on to something powerful. Because of their experience with Viaweb they wereable to give clear and effective advice. The startup ideas they were shepherdinglooked quite promising. Perhaps this system they had adopted as a way to learnquickly was an interesting model in itself. Most investors only handle a fewstartups a year; they are too overwhelmed with their own businesses to handlemuch more. But what if Graham and Morris were to devote their timeexclusively to this apprenticeship system? They could mass-produce the service.They could fund hundreds instead of dozens of such startups. In the process theywould learn in leaps and bounds, and this exponentially increasing knowledgewould lead to increasing numbers of successful startups.If it really took off, not only would they make a fortune, but they would alsohave a decided impact on the economy, unleashing into the system thousands ofsavvy entrepreneurs. They called their new company Y Combinator andconsidered it their ultimate hack to change the shape of the world’s economy.They coached their apprentices in all of the principles they had learned alongthe way—the benefit in looking for new applications of existing technology andneeds that are not being met; the importance of maintaining the closest possiblerelationship with customers; the need to keep ideas as simple and realistic aspossible; the value of creating a superior product and of winning throughcraftsmanship, as opposed to fixating on making money.As their apprentices learned, they learned as well. Oddly enough, theydiscovered that what really makes successful entrepreneurs is not the nature oftheir idea, or the university they went to, but their actual character—theirwillingness to adapt their idea and take advantage of possibilities they had notfirst imagined. This is precisely the trait—fluidity of mind—that Graham hadidentified in himself and in other inventors. The other essential character traitwas supreme tenacity.Over the years, evolving in its own way, Y Combinator has continued togrow at an astounding rate. It is valued now at $500 million, with the clearpotential for further growth. We generally have a misconception about the inventive and creative powers ofthe human mind. We imagine that creative people have an interesting idea,which they then proceed to elaborate and refine in a somewhat linear process.The truth, however, is much messier and more complex. Creativity actuallyresembles a process known in nature as evolutionary hijacking. In evolution,accidents and contingencies play an enormous role. For instance, feathersevolved from reptilian scales, their purpose being to keep birds warm. (Birds evolved from reptilian scales, their purpose being to keep