the rest of the army in line. As far as possible in thissecular world, make battle a religious experience, an ecstatic involvement insomething transcending the present. 2. In 1931 the twenty-three-year-old Lyndon Baines Johnson was offered thekind of job he had been dreaming of: secretary to Richard Kleberg, newlyelected congressman from Texas's Fourteenth Congressional District. Johnsonwas a high-school debating teacher at the time, but he had worked on severalpolitical campaigns and was clearly a young man of ambition. His students atSam Houston High--in Houston, Texas--assumed that he would quickly forgetabout them, but, to the surprise of two of his best debaters, L. E. Jones and GeneLatimer, he not only kept in touch, he wrote to them regularly from Washington.Six months later came a bigger surprise still: Johnson invited Jones and Latimerto Washington to work as his assistants. With the Depression at its height, jobswere scarce--particularly jobs with this kind of potential. The two teenagers grabbed the opportunity. Little did they know what they were in for.The pay was ridiculously low, and it soon became clear that Johnsonintended to work the two men to their human limit. They put in eighteen-ortwenty-hour days, mostly answering constituents' mail. "The chief has a knack,or, better said, a genius for getting the most out of those around him," Latimerlater wrote. "He'd say, 'Gene, it seems L.E.'s a little faster than you today.' AndI'd work faster. 'L.E., he's catching up with you.' And pretty soon, we'd both bepounding [the typewriter] for hours without stopping, just as fast as we could."Jones didn't usually take orders too well, but he found himself workingharder and harder for Johnson. His boss seemed destined for something great:that Johnson would scale the heights of power was written all over his face--andhe would bring the ambitious Jones along with him. Johnson could also turneverything into a cause, making even the most trivial issue a crusade forKleberg's constituents, and Jones felt part of that crusade--part of history.The most important reason for both Jones's and Latimer's willingness towork so hard, though, was that Johnson worked still harder. When Jones trudgedinto the office at five in the morning, the lights would already be on, andJohnson would be hard at work. He was also the last to leave. He never asked hisemployees to do anything he wouldn't do himself. His energy was intense,boundless, and contagious. How could you let such a man down by working lesshard than he did?THE WOLVES AND THE DOGS AT WAROne day, enmity broke out between the dogs and the wolves. The dogs electeda Greek to be their general. But he was in no hurry to engage in battle,despite the violent intimidation of the wolves. "Understand," he said to them,"why I deliberately put off engagement. It is because one must always takecounsel before acting. The wolves, on the one hand, are all of the same race,all of the same color. But our soldiers have very varied habits, and each oneis proud of his own country. Even their colors are not uniform: some areblack,