and all of them bad.It was during this period of post-war introspection and evaluation that one ofthe fundamental military concepts of Scharnhorst and Gneisenau coalescedinto a clearly defined doctrine understandable to and understood by allofficers in the Army. This was the concept of Auftragstaktik , or missiontactics. Moltke himself inserted in the draft of a new tactical manual forsenior commanders the following lines: "A favorable situation will never beexploited if commanders wait for orders. The highest commander and theyoungest soldier must always be conscious of the fact that omission andinactivity are worse than resorting to the wrong expedient."...Nothingepitomized the outlook and performance of the German General Staff, and ofthe German Army which it coordinated, more than this concept of missiontactics: the responsibility of each German officer and noncommissionedofficer...to do without question or doubt whatever the situation required, as hesaw it. This meant that he should act without awaiting orders, if actionseemed necessary. It also meant that he should act contrary to orders, if thesedid not seem to be consistent with the situation. To make perfectly clear thataction contrary to orders was not considered either as disobedience or lack ofdiscipline, German commanders began to repeat one of Moltke's favoritestories, of an incident observed while visiting the headquarters of PrinceFrederick Charles. A major, receiving a tongue-lashing from the Prince for atactical blunder, offered the excuse that he had been obeying orders, andreminded the Prince that a Prussian officer was taught that an order from asuperior was tantamount to an order from the King. Frederick Charles promptly responded: "His Majesty made you a major because he believed youwould know when not to obey his orders." This simple story became guidancefor all following generations of German officers.A GENIUS FOR WAR: THE GERMAN ARMY AND GENERAL STAFF, 1807-1945, COLONEL T.N. DUPUY, 1977Napoleon had always aimed at his version of shih, and he perfected it in the1805 campaign. Obsessed with structure and organization, he developed thecorps system, building flexibility into the very skeleton of his army. The lessonis simple: a rigid, centralized organization locks you into linear strategies; afluid, segmented army gives you options, endless possibilities for reaching shih.Structure is strategy--perhaps the most important strategic choice you will make.Should you inherit a group, analyze its structure and alter it to suit yourpurposes. Pour your creative energy into its organization, making fluidity yourgoal. In doing so you will be following in the footsteps not only of Napoleon butof perhaps the greatest war machine in modern times, the Prussian (and laterGerman) army.Shortly after Napoleon's devastating defeat of the Prussians at the Battle ofJena in 1806 (see chapter 2), the Prussian leaders did some soul-searching. Theysaw they were stuck in the past; their way of doing things was too rigid.Suddenly the military reformers, including Carl von Clausewitz, were takenseriously and given power. And what they decided to do was unprecedented inhistory: they would institutionalize success by designing a superior armystructure.At the core of this revolution was the creation of a general staff, a cadre ofofficers specially trained and educated