trees,buildings, people. Their outlines would slowly soften as the day progressed.Nothing he drew was ever really static; everything is in a state of change andmotion—that is the essence of life. How could he capture this movement onpaper, in an image that was perfectly still?He took classes and learned techniques for creating the various illusions ofsomething caught in the moment of movement, but it was never quite enough.As part of this impossible quest he taught himself aspects of mathematics, suchas descriptive geometry, that could help him understand how to represent hisobjects in two dimensions. His skill improved and his interest in the subjectdeepened. It seemed he was destined for a career as an artist, and so in 1969 heenrolled in art school in Valencia.A few months into his studies, he had a seemingly minor experience thatwould change the course of his life: browsing for supplies in a stationery store, his eye was drawn to a beautifully designed booklet describing the work of thegreat architect Le Corbusier. Somehow this architect had managed to createcompletely distinctive shapes. He turned even something as simple as a stairwayinto a dynamic piece of sculpture. The buildings he designed seemed to defygravity, creating a feeling of movement in their still forms. Studying thisbooklet, Calatrava now developed a new obsession—to learn the secret of howsuch buildings came about. As soon as he could, he transferred to the onearchitecture school in Valencia.Graduating from the school in 1973, Calatrava had gained a solid educationin the subject. He had learned all of the most important design rules andprinciples. He was more than capable of taking his place in some architecturefirm and working his way up. But he felt something elemental was missing in hisknowledge. In looking at all of the great works of architecture that he mostadmired—the Pantheon in Rome, the buildings of Gaudí in Barcelona, thebridges designed by Robert Maillart in Switzerland—he had no solid idea abouttheir actual construction. He knew more than enough about their form, theiraesthetics, and how they functioned as public buildings, but he knew nothingabout how they stood up, how the pieces fit together, how the buildings of LeCorbusier managed to create that impression of movement and dynamism.It was like knowing how to draw a beautiful bird but not understanding howit could fly. As with drawing, he wanted to go beyond the surface, the designelement, and touch upon the reality. He felt that the world was changing;something was in the air. With advances in technology and new materials,revolutionary possibilities had emerged for a new kind of architecture, but totruly exploit that he would have to learn something about engineering. Thinkingin this direction, Calatrava made a fateful decision—he would virtually start overand enroll at the Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, Switzerland, to gaina degree in civil engineering. It would be an arduous process, but he would trainhimself to think and draw like an engineer. Knowing how buildings wereconstructed would liberate him and give him ideas about how to slowly expandthe boundaries of what could be made.In