the origin of modern strategy. The first realexample of an indirect approach to war, it represents a major breakthrough inthinking: instead of being brutal and direct, the counterattack is subtle anddeceptive, using the enemy's energy and aggression to bring about his downfall.Although it is one of the oldest and most basic strategies in warfare, it remains inmany ways the most effective and has proven highly adaptable to modernconditions. It was the strategy of choice of Napoleon Bonaparte, T. E. Lawrence,Erwin Rommel, and Mao Tse-tung.The counterattack principle is infinitely applicable to any competitiveenvironment or form of conflict, since it is based on certain truths of humannature. We are inherently impatient creatures. We find it hard to wait; we wantour desires to be satisfied as quickly as possible. This is a tremendous weakness,for it means that in any given situation we often commit ourselves withoutenough thought. In charging ahead we limit our options and get ourselves intotrouble. Patience, on the other hand, particularly in war, pays unlimiteddividends: it allows us to sniff out opportunities, to time a counterblow that willcatch the enemy by surprise. A person who can lie back and wait for the rightmoment to take action will almost always have an advantage over those whogive in to their natural impatience.THE HEFFALUMP TRAPPiglet and Pooh have fallen into a Hole in the Floor of the Forest. They haveAgreed that it is Really a Heffalump Trap, which makes Piglet Nervous. Heimagines that a Heffalump has Landed Close By: Heffalump (gloatingly):"Ho- ho !" Piglet ( carelessly): "Tra-la-la, tra-la-la." Heffalump (surprised,and not quite so sure of himself): "Ho-ho!" Piglet (more carelessly still):"Tiddle-um-tum, tiddle-um-tum." Heffalump (beginning to say Ho-ho andturning it awkwardly into a cough): "H'r'm! What's all this?" Piglet(surprised): "Hullo! This is a trap I've made, and I'm waiting for a Heffalumpto fall into it." Heffalump (greatly disappointed): "Oh!" (after a long silence):"Are you sure?" Piglet: "Yes." Heffalump: "Oh!" (nervously): "I--I thought it was a trap I'd made to catch Piglets." Piglet (surprised): "Oh, no!"Heffalump: "Oh!" (apologetically): "I--I must have got it wrong, then."Piglet: "I'm afraid so." (politely): "I'm sorry." (he goes on humming.)Heffalump: "Well--well--I--well. I suppose I'd better be getting back?" Piglet(looking up carelessly): "Must you? Well, if you see Christopher Robinanywhere, you might tell him I want him." Heffalump (eager to please):"Certainly! Certainly!" (he hurries off.) Pooh (who wasn't going to be there,but we find we can't do without him): "Oh Piglet, how brave and clever youare!" Piglet (modestly): "Not at all, Pooh." (And then, when ChristopherRobin comes, Pooh can tell him all about it.)THE HOUSE AT POOH CORNER, A.A. MILNE, 1928The notion of "catching" (utsuraseru) applies to many things: yawning andsleepiness, for example. Time can also be "catching." In a large-scale battle,when the enemy is restless and trying to bring a quick conclusion to thebattle, pay no attention. Instead, try to pretend that you are calm and quietwith no urgent need to end the battle. The enemy will then be affected by yourcalm and easy attitude and become less alert. When