to action. Over the years, it seemed, thousands ofthese secret Ismaili converts had managed to infiltrate key castles, and now theyhad taken them over in the name of Hasan-i-Sabah. This gave them control overpart of northern Persia, a kind of independent state within the empire. Nizam al-Mulk was a benevolent administrator, but he knew the danger of allowing sectslike the Ismailis to flourish. Better to snuff them out early on than facerevolution. So, in 1092, the vizier convinced the sultan to send two armies tobring down the castles and destroy the Nizari Ismailis.The castles were strongly defended, and the countryside around them teemedwith sympathizers. The war turned into a stalemate, and eventually the sultan'sarmies were forced to come home. Nizam al-Mulk would have to find someother solution, perhaps an occupying force for the region--but a few monthslater, as he was traveling from Isfahan to Baghdad, a Sufi monk approached thelitter on which he was carried, pulled out a dagger from under his clothes, andstabbed the vizier to death. The killer was revealed to be an Ismaili dressed as apeaceful Sufi, and he confessed to his captors that Hasan himself had assignedhim to do the job.The death of Nizam al-Mulk was followed within weeks by the death, fromnatural causes, of Malik Shah. His loss would have been a blow at any time, butwithout his crafty vizier to oversee the succession, the empire fell into a periodof chaos that lasted several years. By 1105, however, a degree of stability hadbeen reestablished and attention again focused on the Ismailis. With one murderthey had managed to make the entire empire tremble. They had to be destroyed.A new and vigorous campaign was launched against the sect. And soon it wasrevealed that the assassination of Nizam al-Mulk was not a single act of revenge,as it had seemed at the time, but an Ismaili policy, a strange and frightening newway of waging war. Over the next few years, key members of the administrationof the new sultan, Muhammad Tapar, were assassinated in the same ritualisticfashion: a killer would emerge from a crowd to deliver a deadly blow with adagger. The deed was most often done in public and in broad daylight;sometimes, though, it took place while the victim was in bed, a secret Ismailihaving infiltrated his household staff.A wave of fear fanned out among the empire's hierarchy. It was impossibleto tell who was an Ismaili: the sect's adherents were patient, disciplined, and hadmastered the art of keeping their beliefs to themselves and fitting in anywhere. Itdid not help that when the assassins were captured and tortured, they would accuse various people within the sultan's inner circle of being either paid spiesfor the Ismailis or secret converts. No one could know for certain if they weretelling the truth, but suspicion was cast on everyone.Losses to which we are accustomed affect us less deeply. JUVENAL, FIRST TO SECOND CENTURY A.D.Now viziers, judges, and local officials had to travel surrounded bybodyguards. Many of them began to wear thick, uncomfortable shirts of