determined that he would be the first artist to createrealistic angelic wings.For this purpose, he went to the marketplace and purchased several birds. Hespent hours sketching their wings, how exactly they merged into their bodies. He spent hours sketching their wings, how exactly they merged into their bodies. Hewanted to create the sensation that these wings had organically grown from theangel’s shoulders and would bring it natural flight. As usual, Leonardo could notstop there. After his work was completed he became obsessed with birds, and theidea brewed in his mind that perhaps a human could really fly, if Leonardo couldfigure out the science behind avian flight. Now, several hours every week, heread and studied everything he could about birds. This was how his mindnaturally worked—one idea flowed into another.Leonardo would certainly have recalled the lowest point in his life—the year1481. The Pope asked Lorenzo de’ Medici to recommend to him the finest artistsin Florence to decorate a chapel he just had built, the Sistine Chapel. Lorenzocomplied and sent to Rome all of the best Florentine artists, excluding Leonardo.They had never really gotten along. Lorenzo was a literary type, steeped in theclassics. Leonardo could not read Latin and had little knowledge of the ancients.He had a more scientific bent to his nature. But at the root of Leonardo’sbitterness at this snub was something else—he had come to hate the dependenceforced upon artists to gain royal favor, to live from commission to commission.He had grown tired of Florence and the court politics that reigned there.He made a decision that would change everything in his life: He wouldestablish himself in Milan, and he would devise a new strategy for hislivelihood. He would be more than an artist. He would pursue all of the craftsand sciences that interested him—architecture, military engineering, hydraulics,anatomy, sculpture. For any prince or patron that wanted him, he could serve asan overall adviser and artist, for a nice stipend. His mind, he decided, workedbest when he had several different projects at hand, allowing him to build allkinds of connections between them.Continuing his self-examination, Leonardo would have thought back to theone great commission that he accepted during this new phase of his life—anenormous bronze equestrian statue in memory of Francesco Sforza, the father ofthe current duke of Milan. The challenge for him was too irresistible. It would beof a scale no one had seen since the days of ancient Rome, and to cast somethingso large in bronze would require an engineering feat that had baffled all of theartists of his time. Leonardo worked on the design for months, and to test it outhe built a clay replica of the statue and displayed it in the most expansive squarein Milan. It was gigantic, the size of a large building. The crowds that gatheredto look at it were awestruck—its size, the impetuous stance of the horse that theartist had captured, its terrifying aspect. Word spread throughout Italy of thismarvel and people anxiously awaited its realization in bronze. For this purpose,Leonardo invented a totally