again.The next time you launch a campaign, try an experiment: do not think abouteither your solid goals or your wishful dreams, and do not plan out your strategyon paper. Instead think deeply about what you have--the tools and materials youwill be working with. Ground yourself not in dreams and plans but in reality:think of your own skills, any political advantage you might have, the morale ofyour troops, how creatively you can use the means at your disposal. Then, out ofthat process, let your plans and goals blossom. Not only will your strategies bemore realistic, they will be more inventive and forceful. Dreaming first of whatyou want and then trying to find the means to reach it is a recipe for exhaustion,waste, and defeat.Do not mistake cheapness for perfect economy--armies have failed byspending too little as often as by spending too much. When the British attackedTurkey during World War I, hoping to knock it out of the war and then attackGermany from the east, they began by sending a fleet to break through theDardanelles Strait and head for the Turkish capital of Constantinople. The fleetmade good progress, but even so, after several weeks some ships had been sunk,more lives than expected had been lost, and the venture in general was provingcostly. So the British called off the naval campaign, deciding instead to land anarmy on the peninsula of Gallipoli and fight through by land. That route seemedsafer and cheaper--but it turned into a months-long fiasco that cost thousands oflives and in the end led nowhere, for the Allies eventually gave up and pulled outtheir troops. Years later, Turkish documents were uncovered that revealed thatthe British fleet had been on the verge of success: in another day or two, it wouldhave broken through and Constantinople would probably have fallen. The wholecourse of the war might have been changed. But the British hadovereconomized; at the last moment, they had pulled their punches, worryingabout cost. In the end the cost of trying to win on the cheap wound up punitivelyexpensive.Every limitation has its value, but a limitation that requires persistent effortentails a cost of too much energy. When, however, the limitation is a natural one (as, for example, the limitation by which water flows only downhill), itnecessarily leads to success, for then it means a saving of energy. The energythat otherwise would be consumed in a vain struggle with the object isapplied wholly to the benefit of the matter in hand, and success is assured. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.Perfect economy, then, does not mean hoarding your resources. That is noteconomy but stinginess--deadly in war. Perfect economy means finding a goldenmean, a level at which your blows count but do not wear you out.Overeconomizing will wear you out more, for the war will drag on, its costsgrowing, without your ever being able to deliver a knockout punch.Several tactics lend themselves to economy in fighting. First is the use ofdeception, which costs relatively little but can yield powerful results. DuringWorld War II