the critical problem of judging the correct moment for theenveloping force to reveal its disconcerting position on the enemy flank. Formaximum effect, it was important that this should not occur before the enemyhad committed all or most of his reserves to the frontal battle, and this needfor accurate timing of the flank attack called for the greatest judgment on thepart of Napoleon and his key subordinates. The former had to judge themoment when all the enemy troops were indeed committed to the frontalbattle (and with the billowing clouds of black-powder smoke obliterating thescene this was no easy matter); the latter had the task of keeping their eagertroops "on the leash" so as to avoid any premature attack disclosing theirpresence. Then, when the exact moment came, Napoleon would give thesignal.... Then the attaque debordante would spring to life. A roar of cannonaway on his hitherto secure flank would cause the enemy to lookapprehensively over his shoulder, and before long the spyglasses of hisanxious staff would be able to detect a line of dust and smoke crawling evernearer from the flank or rear. This threat to his communications and line ofretreat could not be ignored. The enemy general might now theoreticallyadopt one of two courses (but in practice only one). He could either order animmediate general retreat to slip out of the trap before it shut behind his army(although this was generally out of the question, as Napoleon would of courselaunch a general frontal attack against all sectors of the enemy line tocoincide with the unmasking of his flanking force and thus pin the foe stilltighter to the ground he was holding); or he would be compelled to findtroops from somewhere to form a new line at right angles to his main positionto face the new onslaught and protect his flank. As all reserves were (ideally)already committed to battle, this could be easily and quickly effected only bydeliberately weakening those frontal sectors closest to the new threat. Thisthinning out of the enemy front is what Napoleon termed "the Event"--andwas of course exactly what he intended to have happen. The curtain on thefirst act would now fall; the enemy was reacting as required; the destructionof the cohesion of his line, the final ruination of his equilibrium, could now beundertaken with practically a guarantee of ultimate success. THE CAMPAIGNS OF NAPOLEON, DAVID G. CHANDLER, 1966InterpretationNapoleon was no magician, and his defeat of the Austrians in Italy wasdeceptively simple. Facing two armies converging on him, he calculated thatd'Alvintzi's was the more imminent danger. The fight for Caldiero encouragedthe Austrians to think that Verona would be defended through direct, frontalconfrontation. But Napoleon instead divided his army and sent the larger portionof it to threaten the Austrian supply depot and lines of communication andretreat. Had d'Alvintzi ignored the threat and advanced on Verona, he wouldhave moved farther away from his critical base of operations and put himself ingreat jeopardy; had he stayed put, Napoleon would have squeezed him betweentwo armies. In fact, Napoleon knew d'Alvintzi would have