the marchnorth, slaves carrying their heavy body armor, mules and donkeys transportingtheir food. When they reached the pass looking down on the plains of Marathon,their hearts sank: as far as the eye could see, the long strip of land was filled withtents, horses, and soldiers from all over the Persian Empire. Ships cluttered thecoast.For several days neither side moved. The Athenians had no choice but tohold their position; without cavalry and hopelessly outnumbered, how could theydo battle at Marathon? If enough time went by, perhaps the Spartans wouldarrive as reinforcements. But what were the Persians waiting for?Before dawn on August 12, some Greek scouts ostensibly working for thePersians slipped across to the Athenian side and reported startling news: undercover of darkness, the Persians had just sailed for the Bay of Phaleron outsideAthens, taking most of their cavalry with them and leaving a holding force ofsome 15,000 soldiers in the plains of Marathon. They would take Athens fromthe sea, then march north, squeezing the Athenian army at Marathon betweentwo larger forces.Of the Athenian army's eleven commanders, Miltiades alone seemed calm,even relieved: this was their opportunity. As the sun was getting ready to rise, heargued for an immediate attack on the Persians at Marathon. Some of the othercommanders resisted this idea: the enemy still had more men, some cavalry, andplenty of archers. Better to wait for the Spartans, who would surely arrive soon.But Miltiades countered that the Persians had divided their forces. He had foughtthem before and knew that the Greek infantryman was superior in discipline andspirit. The Persians at Marathon now only slightly outnumbered the Greeks; theycould fight them and win. Meanwhile, even with a good wind, it would take the Persian ships ten totwelve hours to round the coast and arrive at the Bay of Phaleron. Then theywould need more time to disembark the troops and horses. If the Atheniansdefeated the Persians at Marathon quickly, they would have just enough time torun back to Athens and defend the city the same day. If instead they opted towait, the Spartans might never arrive; the Persians would surround them, and,more ominously, the Persian sympathizers within Athens would probably betraythe city from within and open its walls to the barbarians. It was now or never. Bya vote of six to five, the commanders decided to attack at dawn.At six in the morning, the Athenians began their charge. A hail of arrowsfrom the Persian archers rained down on them, but they closed in on the enemyso quickly that the battle now had to be fought hand-to-hand--and, as Miltiadeshad foreseen, in close combat the Athenians were superior. They pushed thePersians back into the marshes at the north end of the plain, where thousandsdrowned. The waters reddened with blood. By nine in the morning, theAthenians had control of the plains, having lost fewer than two hundred men.Although emotionally spent by this battle, the Athenians now had onlyaround seven hours to make the twenty-four miles back to Athens in time to stopthe Persians. There was simply no