all against him, hesaid; he had several large rallies scheduled, and he had not been able topersuade a single prominent individual to introduce him. So, Ava recalls--in arecollection echoed by Lyndon's brother--"his Daddy said, 'If you can't usethat route, why don't you go the other route?'" "What other route?" Lyndonasked--and his Daddy mapped it out for him. There was a tactic, SamJohnson said, that could make the leaders' opposition work for him, insteadof against him. The same tactic, Sam said, could make the adverse newspaperpolls work for him, instead of against him. It could even make the youth issuework for him. If the leaders were against him, he told his son, stop trying to conceal that fact; emphasize it--in a dramatic fashion. If he was behind in therace, emphasize that--in a dramatic fashion. If he was younger than the othercandidates, emphasize that. Lyndon asked his father what he meant, and hisfather told him. If no leader would introduce Lyndon, Sam said, he shouldstop searching for mediocre adults as substitutes, but instead should beintroduced by an outstanding young child. And the child should introduce himnot as an adult would introduce him, but with a poem, a very special poem....And when Lyndon asked who the child should be, Sam smiled, and pointed toAva's son. In an area in which horsemanship was one of the most esteemedtalents, Corky Cox was, at the age of eight, already well known for the featsof riding and calf-roping with which he had swept the children's events inrecent rodeos; the best young cowboy in the Hill Country, people were callinghim. "Corky can do it," Sam said. All the next day, Sam trained him. "Hewanted Corky to really shout out 'thousands,'" Ava recalls. "He wanted him tosmack down his hand every time he said that word. I can still see Uncle Samsmacking down his hand on the kitchen table to show Corky how." And thatnight, at a rally in Henly, in Hays County, Lyndon Johnson told the audience,"They say I'm a young candidate. Well, I've got a young campaign manager,too," and he called Corky to the podium, and Corky, smacking down hishand, recited a stanza of Edgar A. Guest's "It Couldn't Be Done": There arethousands to tell you it cannot be done, There are thousands to prophesyfailure; There are thousands to point out to you one by one, The dangers thatwait to assail you. But just buckle in with a bit of a grin, Just take off yourcoat and go to it; Just start in to sing as you tackle the thing That "cannot bedone," and you'll do it.THE PATH TO POWER: THE YEARS OF LYNDON JOHNSON, VOL. 1,ROBERT A. CARO, 1990In our own time, the family therapist Jay Haley has observed that for manydifficult people acting out is a strategy--a method of control. They givethemselves the license to be impossible and neurotic. If you react by gettingangry and trying to make them stop, you are doing just what they want: they areengaging your emotions and dominating your attention.