opportunists. Instead ofbeginning with some broad goal, they go in search of the fact of great yield—abit of empirical evidence that is strange and does not fit the paradigm, and yet isintriguing. This bit of evidence sticks out and grabs their attention, like theelongated rock. They are not sure of their goal and they do not yet have in mindan application for the fact they have uncovered, but they are open to where itwill lead them. Once they dig deeply, they discover something that challengesprevailing conventions and offers endless opportunities for knowledge andapplication.In looking for facts of great yield, you must follow certain guidelines. In looking for facts of great yield, you must follow certain guidelines.Although you are beginning within a particular field that you understand deeply,you must not allow your mind to become tethered to this discipline. Instead youmust read journals and books from all different fields. Sometimes you will findan interesting anomaly in an unrelated discipline that may have implications foryour own. You must keep your mind completely open—no item is too small orunimportant to escape your attention. If an apparent anomaly calls into questionyour own beliefs or assumptions, so much the better. You must speculate onwhat it could mean, this speculation guiding your subsequent research but notdetermining your conclusions. If what you have discovered seems to haveprofound ramifications, you must pursue it with the utmost intensity. Better tolook into ten such facts, with only one yielding a great discovery, than to lookinto twenty ideas that bring success but have trivial implications. You are thesupreme hunter, ever alert, eyes scanning the landscape for the fact that willexpose a once-hidden reality, with profound consequences.3. Mechanical IntelligenceFrom their earliest years the brothers Wilbur Wright (1867–1912) and OrvilleWright (1871–1948) displayed a rather unusual interest in the working parts ofany kind of device, particularly the elaborate toys their father often broughthome to them from his travels as a bishop in the United Brethren Church. Theywould take these toys apart in a state of extreme excitement, avid to figure outwhat made them tick. Then they would reassemble them, always with somemodification.Although the boys were reasonably good at schoolwork, neither of themreceived a high school diploma. They wanted to live in a world of machines, andthe only knowledge that really interested them was that which related to thedesign and construction of some new device. They were extremely practical.In 1888 their father needed to quickly print out a pamphlet for his work. Tohelp him, the brothers cobbled together their own small job press, using thehinge from a folding buggy top in the backyard, rusty springs, and other piecesof scrap. The press worked brilliantly. Inspired by their success, they improvedthe design, using better parts, and opened their own printing shop. Those whoknew the business marveled at the peculiar press the brothers had concocted,which managed to spit out 1,000 pages per hour, double the usual rate.The brothers, however, had a restless spirit. They needed constantchallenges, and in 1892 Orville discovered the perfect new outlet for them. Withthe