Fala (FDR's terrier) Falkland Islands, British war for false surrender Family Book on the Art of War (Munenori) family dynamics fear fearlessness, cultivating Feisal, Sherif Fighting France Fingerspitzengefuhl (fingertip feel) First Punic War First Triumvirate, Roman flanking maneuvers. See turning strategy flexibility Florence followers. See soldiers (team members) Fontaine, Joan fools, suffering football, strategy examples from forcing strategies foresight formulaic strategies fortress defense Fountain (Duchamp) France Algeria and Allied invasion of Austria and blitzkrieg of Burgundy and Germany and Great Britain and Haiti and Italy and Napoleonic Wars of occupation of Prussia and Reign of Terror in Russia and in Seven Years' War Spain and terrorism in unification of Vichy government Vietnam and in World War I in World War II Francis I, emperor of Austria Franco, Francisco Franklin, Benjamin Frazier, Joe Frederick the Great (Frederick II), king of Prussia fait accompli strategy of influence of Machiavelli and nonengagement strategy and in Seven Years' War on the unexpected freedom, as burden Free France French-Algerian wars French Resistance French Revolution friction Friedrich Wilhelm III, king of Prussia friendship/friendliness alliances and as front as negotiating tool toward enemies front false friendship as inner. See inner-front strategy internal vs. external leadership from passive. See passive-aggression strategy frontal attack Fuji-yori, Mori Fuller, J.F.C. FUSAG (First United States Army Group) Gallic War Gallipoli, Battle of chain of command errors in perfect economy errors in gamble, risk compared with Gandhi, Mahatma, passive-aggression strategy of, xviii Ganryu, Sasaki Garfield, James A. Gaul Gaulle, Charles de fait accompli strategy of one-upmanship of Roosevelt and terrorism, response to Gay Science, The (Nietzsche) Generalship of Alexander the Great, The (Fuller) General's War, The: The Inside Story of the Conflict in the Gulf (Gordon and Trainor) generosity (helping others) Genghis Khan blitzkrieg strategy of controlled chaos strategy of divide-and-conquer strategy and Genius for War, A: The German Army and the General Staff, 1807-1845 (Dupuy) Genzaemon George III, king of England German army Germanic forces, Roman empire and Germany blitzkrieg strategy of France and Great Britain and Germany during Reformation Spain and terrorism of in World War I in World War II Geryon Ghilzye tribes Giap, Vo Nguyen Gibraltar Giraud, Henri Gisgo (Carthaginian soldier) glaciation Glubb, John Bagot goals gods, Greek. See also specific gods Gooch, John good and evil, definition of Gorbachev, Mikhail Gordon, Michael R. Gould, Jay Gourmont, Remy de Gracian, Baltasar Grande Armee grand strategy first move in goals and perspective and politics and principles of severing the roots Granicus, Battle of the Grant, Cary Grant, Ulysses S. McClernand and one-upmanship of self-reliance of unexpected strategies of Graves, Robert Great Arab Conquests, The (Glubb) Great Britain Afghanistan and Burgundy and civil war in colonial U.S. and Denmark, war with Falkland Islands and France and Germany and India and Napoleonic Wars and Russia and Scotland, war with Spanish Armada defeated by Turkey and in World War I in World War II Zulus, war with Great Hunt, Mongol Greco-Persian Wars, The (Green) Greece/Greeks. See also Athens/Athenians good and evil in humankind,