the essence of the Current. Instead, it is better toproduce a prototype—a form of speculation—and see how people respond to it.Based on the assessments you gain, you can redo the work and launch it again,cycling through this process several times until you perfect it. The responses ofthe public will make you think more deeply about what you are producing. Suchfeedback will help make visible what is generally invisible to your eyes—theobjective reality of your work and its flaws, as reflected through the eyes ofmany people. Alternating between ideas and artifacts will help you to createsomething compelling and effective.D. ALTER YOUR PERSPECTIVEConsider thinking as an extended form of vision that allows us to see more of theworld, and creativity as the ability to expand that vision beyond conventionalboundaries.When we perceive an object, our eyes relay only a portion or outline of it toour brains, leaving our mind to fill in the rest, giving us a fast and relativelyaccurate assessment of what we are seeing. Our eyes are not paying deepattention to all of the details, but noticing patterns. Our thought processes,modeled after visual perception, use a similar shorthand. When an event occursor when we meet a new person, we do not stop to consider all aspects or details,but instead we see an outline or pattern that fits into our expectations and pastexperiences. We fit the event or person into categories. As with vision, for us tohave to think deeply about every new occurrence or perceived object wouldexhaust the brain. Unfortunately, we transfer this mental shorthand to almosteverything—it is the main characteristic of the Conventional Mind. We mightimagine that when we are engaged in solving a problem or realizing an idea thatwe are being highly rational and thorough, but just as with our eyes, we are notaware of how deeply our thoughts fall into the same narrow grooves and thesame categorizing shorthand.Creative people are those who have the capacity to resist this shorthand.They can look at a phenomenon from several different angles, noticing They can look at a phenomenon from several different angles, noticingsomething we miss because we only look straight on. Sometimes, after one oftheir discoveries or inventions is made public, we are surprised at how obvious itseems and wonder why no one else had thought of it before. This is becausecreative people are actually looking at what is hidden in plain sight, and notrushing to generalize and label. Whether such powers are natural or learned doesnot matter: the mind can be trained to loosen itself up and move outside thegrooves. To do this you must become aware of the typical patterns your mindfalls into and how you can break out of these patterns and alter your perspectivethrough conscious effort. Once you engage in this process, you will beastonished at the ideas and creative powers it will unleash. The following areseveral of the most common patterns or shorthands, and how you can subvertthem.Looking at the “what” instead of the “how”:Let us say that something goes wrong in a project of some