their behavior. Communication is a form of warfare.Your enemies here are defensive; they want to be left alone with their preexistingprejudices and beliefs. The more deeply you penetrate their defenses, the moreyou occupy their mental space, the more effectively you are communicating. Inverbal terms, most people wage a kind of medieval warfare, using words, pleas,and calls for attention like battle-axes and clubs to hit people over the head. Butin being so direct, they only make their targets more resistant. Instead you mustlearn to fight indirectly and unconventionally, tricking people into lowering theirdefenses--hitting their emotions, altering their experience, dazzling them withimages, powerful symbols, and visceral sensory cues. Bringing them back to thatchildlike state when they were more vulnerable and fluid, the communicatedidea penetrates deep behind their defenses. Because you are not fighting theusual way, you will have an unusual power.The priest Ryokan...asked Zen master Bukkan...for an explanation of the fourDharma-worlds.... [Bukkan] said: "To explain the four Dharma-worldsshould not need a lot of chatter." He filled a white tea cup with tea, drank itup, and smashed the cup to pieces right in front of the priest, saying, "Haveyou got it?" The priest said: "Thanks to your here-and-now teaching, I havepenetrated right into the realm of Principle and Event."--Trevor Leggett, Samurai Zen: The Warrior Koans (1985) THE MASTERMINDIn 1498 the twenty-nine-year-old Niccolo Machiavelli was appointed secretaryof Florence's Second Chancery, which managed the city's foreign affairs. Thechoice was unusual: Machiavelli was of relatively low birth, had no experiencein politics, and lacked a law degree or other professional qualification. He had acontact in the Florentine government, however, who knew him personally andsaw great potential in him. And indeed, over the next few years, Machiavellistood out from his colleagues in the Chancery for his tireless energy, his incisivereports on political matters, and his excellent advice to ambassadors andministers. He won prestigious assignments, traveling around Europe ondiplomatic missions--to various parts of northern Italy to meet with CesareBorgia, to ferret out that ruthless statesman's intentions on Florence; to France tomeet with King Louis XII; to Rome to confer with Pope Julius II. He seemed tobe at the start of a brilliant career.Not all was well, however, in Machiavelli's professional life. He complainedto his friends about the Chancery's low pay; he also described doing all the hardwork in various negotiations, only to see some powerful senior minister broughton board at the last moment to finish the job and take the credit. Many abovehim, he said, were stupid and lazy, appointed to their positions by virtue of birthand connections. He was developing the art of dealing with these men, he toldhis friends, finding a way to use them instead of being used.Before Machiavelli's arrival in the Chancery, Florence had been ruled by theMedici family, who, however, had been unseated in 1494, when the city becamea republic. In 1512, Pope Julius II financed an army to take Florence by force,overthrow the republic, and restore the Medicis to power. The plan succeeded,and the Medicis took control, well in Julius's debt. A few