should or should not bedoing. It may make sense for some, but that does not mean it bears any relationto your own goals and destiny. You need to be patient enough to plot severalsteps ahead--to wage a campaign instead of fighting battles. The path to yourgoal may be indirect, your actions may be strange to other people, but so muchthe better: the less they understand you, the easier they are to deceive,manipulate, and seduce. Following this path, you will gain the calm, Olympianperspective that will separate you from other mortals, whether dreamers who getnothing done or prosaic, practical people who accomplish only small things.What I particularly admire in Alexander is, not so much his campaigns...buthis political sense. He possessed the art of winning the affection of thepeople.--Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821)TOTAL WARFAREIn 1967 the leaders of the American war effort in Vietnam thought they werefinally making progress. They had launched a series of operations to search outand destroy the Vietcong--North Vietnamese soldiers who had infiltrated SouthVietnam and had come to control much of its countryside. These guerrillafighters were elusive, but the Americans had inflicted heavy losses on them inthe few battles they had managed to force on them that year. The new SouthVietnamese government, supported by the Americans, seemed relatively stable,which could help to win it approval among the Vietnamese people. To the north, bombing raids had knocked out many of North Vietnam's airfields and heavilydamaged its air force. Although massive antiwar demonstrations had broken outin the United States, polls showed that most Americans supported the war andbelieved that the end was in sight.Since the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese army had proved ratherineffective in head-to-head battle against the might of American firepower andtechnology, the strategy was to somehow lure them into a major engagement.That would be the turning point of the war. And by the end of 1967, intelligenceindicated that the North Vietnamese were about to fall into just such a trap: theircommander, General Vo Nguyen Giap, was planning a major offensive againstthe U.S. marine outpost at Khe Sanh. Apparently he wanted to repeat his greatestsuccess, the battle at Dien Bien Phu in 1954, in which he had defeated theFrench army, driving the French out of Vietnam for good.Khe Sanh was a key strategic outpost. It was located a mere fourteen milesfrom the demilitarized zone that separated North from South Vietnam. It wasalso six miles from the border of Laos, site of a stretch of the famous Ho ChiMinh Trail, the North Vietnamese supply route to the Vietcong in the South.General William C. Westmoreland, the overall U.S. commander, was using KheSanh to monitor enemy activity to the north and west. Dien Bien Phu had serveda similar role for the French, and Giap had been able to isolate and destroy it.Westmoreland would not allow Giap to repeat that feat. He built well-protectedairstrips around Khe Sanh, ensuring full use of his helicopters and control of theair. He called up substantial numbers of troops from the south to the Khe Sanharea, just in case