Roosevelt, questioning theactivities of his wife, his sons, and even his dog, the Scotch terrier Fala, whomDewey accused of being pampered at the taxpayers' expense. Rooseveltcountered in a campaign speech,The Republican leaders have not been content to make personal attacks uponme--or my sons--they now include my little dog, Fala. Unlike the members ofmy family, Fala resents this. When he learned that the Republican fictionwriters had concocted a story that I left him behind on an Aleutian island andhad sent a destroyer back to find him--at a cost to the taxpayer of 2 or 3, or 8or 20 million dollars--his Scotch soul was furious. He has not been the samedog since. I am accustomed to hearing malicious falsehoods about myself, butI think I have the right to object to libelous statements about my dog.To undertake the military operations, the army must prefer stillness tomovement. It reveals no shape when still but exposes its shape in movement.When a rash movement leads to exposure of the shape of the army, it will fallvictim to the enemy. But for movement, the tiger and leopard will not fall intotrap, the deer will not run into snare, the birds will not be stuck by net, and the fish and turtles will not be caught by hooks. All these animals becomeprey to man because of their movement. Therefore the wise man treasuresstillness. By keeping still, he can dispel temerity and cope with thetemerarious enemy. When the enemy exposes a vulnerable shape, seize thechance to subdue it. The Book of Master Weiliao observes, "The armyachieves victory by stillness." Indeed, the army should not move withoutcareful thought, much less take reckless action.THE WILES OF WAR: 36 MILITARY STRATEGIES FROM ANCIENTCHINA, TRANSLATED BY SUN HAICHEN, 1991Devastatingly funny, the speech was also ruthlessly effective. And how could hisopponents reply to it when it quoted their own words right back at them? Yearafter year Roosevelt's opponents exhausted themselves attacking him, scoringpoints at moments when it didn't matter and losing one landslide election afteranother to him. Interpretation Roosevelt could not bear to feel cornered, to have no options.This was partly because of his flexible nature; he preferred to bend tocircumstances, changing direction effortlessly as needed. It also came out of hisphysical limitations--he hated to feel hemmed in and helpless. Early on, whenRoosevelt campaigned in the usual aggressive way of American politics, arguinghis case and attacking his opponents, he felt hopelessly constricted. Throughexperiment he learned the power of holding back. Now he let his opponentsmake the first move: whether by attacking him or by detailing their ownpositions, they would expose themselves, giving him openings to use their ownwords against them later on. By staying silent under their attacks, he would goadthem into going too far (nothing is more infuriating than engaging with someoneand getting no response) and ending up shrill and irrational, which played badlywith the public. Once their own aggression had made them vulnerable,Roosevelt would come in for the kill.Roosevelt's style can be likened to jujitsu, the Japanese art of self-defense. Injujitsu a