gifts for which you may be tempted to give it up. Lay less stress on making many dependent on you than on keeping yourself independent of any . The sole advantage of power is that you can do more good. Above all do not regard responsibility as a favour, for generally it is another's plan to make one dependent on him. cclxxxvii Never act in a Passion. If you do, all is lost. Y ou cannot act for yourself if you are not yourself, and passion always drives out reason. In such cases inter-pose a prudent go-between who can only be prudent if he keeps cool. That is why lookers-on see most of the game, because they keep cool. As soon as you notice that you are losing your temper beat a wise retreat. For no sooner is the blood up than it is spilt, and in a few moments occasion may be given for many days' repentance for oneself and complaints of the other party . cclxxxviii Live for the Moment. Our acts and thoughts and all must be determined by circumstances. Will when you may , for time and tide wait for no man. Do not live by certain ﬁxed rules, except those that relate to the cardinal virtues. Nor let your will subscribe ﬁxed conditions, for you may have to drink the water to-morrow which you cast away to-day . There be some so absurdly paradoxical that they expect all the circumstances of an action should bend to their eccentric whims and not vice versa. The wise man knows that the very polestar of prudence lies in steering by the wind. cclxxxix Nothing depreciates a Man more than to show he is a Man like other Men. The day he is seen to be very human he ceases to be thought divine. Frivolity is the exact opposite of reputation. And as the re-served are held to be more than men, so the frivolous are held to be less. No failing causes such failure of respect. For frivolity is the exact opposite of solid seriousness. A man of levity cannot be a man of weight even when he is old, and age should oblige him to be prudent. Although this blemish is so common it is none the less despised. ccxc 'Tis a piece of good F ortune to combine Men's Love and Respect. Generally one dare not be liked if one would be respected. Love is more sensitive than hate. Love and honour do not go well together. So that one should aim neither to be much feared nor much loved. Love introduces conﬁdence, and the further this advances, the more respect recedes. Prefer to be loved with respect rather than with passion, for that is a love suitable for many . ccxci Know how to T est. The care of the wise must guard against the snare of the wicked. Great judgment is needed to test that of another. It is more important to know the