he couldhave done better. Johnson never wanted to seem desperate or patronizing. It wasthat last handshake and look in the eye that mattered.The polls were deceptive: they continued to show Johnson behind, but heknew he had won votes that no poll would register. And in any case he wasslowly catching up--by the last week he had crept into third place. Now,suddenly, the other candidates took notice. The election turned nasty: Johnsonwas attacked for his youth, for his blind support of Roosevelt, for anything thatcould be dug up. Trying to win a few votes in Austin, Johnson came up againstthe political machine of Mayor Miller, who disliked him and did everythingpossible to sabotage his campaign. Undeterred, Johnson personally visited themayor several times in that last week to broker some kind of truce. But Millersaw through his charm. His personal appeal might have won over the district'spoorest voters, but the other candidates saw a different side of him: he wasruthless and capable of slinging mud. As he rose in the polls, he made more andmore enemies.If you concentrate exclusively on victory, with no thought for the after-effect,you may be too exhausted to profit by the peace, while it is almost certain thatthe peace will be a bad one, containing the germs of another war. This is alesson supported by abundant experience.STRATEGY, B. H. LIDDELL HART, 1954On Election Day, Johnson pulled off one of the greatest upsets in Americanpolitical history, outdistancing his nearest rival by three thousand votes. Exhausted by the grueling pace he had set, he was hospitalized, but the day afterhis victory he was back at work--he had something extremely important to do.From his hospital bed, Johnson dictated letters to his rivals in the race. Hecongratulated them for running a great campaign; he also described his ownvictory as a fluke, a vote for Roosevelt more than for himself. Learning thatMiller was visiting Washington, Johnson telegraphed his connections in the cityto chaperone the mayor and treat him like royalty. As soon as Johnson left thehospital, he paid visits to his rivals and acted with almost embarrassing humility.He even befriended Polk's brother, driving him around town to run errands.A mere eighteen months later, Johnson had to stand for reelection, and theseonetime opponents and bitter enemies suddenly turned into the most ferventJohnson believers, donating money, even campaigning on his behalf. And MayorMiller, the one man who had hated Johnson the most, now became his strongestsupporter and remained so for years to come.InterpretationFor most of us, the conclusion of anything--a project, a campaign, an attempt atpersuasion--represents a kind of wall: our work is done, and it is time to tally ourgains and losses and move on. Lyndon Johnson looked at the world muchdifferently: an ending was not like a wall but more like a door, leading to thenext phase or battle. What mattered to him was not gaining a victory but where itleft him, how it opened onto the next round. What good would it do to win theelection of 1937 if he were thrown