the strength to control the consequences; too many and the conspiracywill be exposed before it bears fruit.In destroying anything from within, you must be patient and resist the lure oflarge-scale, dramatic action. As Canaris showed, the placement of little wrenchesin the machinery is just as destructive in the long run, and safer because harderto trace. Consider the ability to dissuade your opponents from actingaggressively or to make their plans misfire as a kind of battlefield victory, even ifyour triumph is surreptitious. A few such victories and your enemy will fall apartfrom within.Finally, morale plays a crucial part in any war, and it is always wise to workto undermine the morale of the enemy troops. The Chinese call this "removingthe firewood from under the cauldron." You can attempt this from the outside,through propaganda, but that often has the opposite effect, reinforcing thecohesion of soldiers and civilians in the face of an alien force trying to win themover. It is much more effective to find sympathizers within their ranks, who willspread discontent among them like a disease. When soldiers see those on theirown side having doubts about the cause they are fighting for, they are generallydemoralized and vulnerable to more disaffection. If their leaders overreact to thisthreat by punishing grumblers, they play into your hands, representingthemselves as unjust and heavy-handed; if they leave the problem alone, it willonly spread; and if they start to see enemies everywhere around them, theirparanoia will cloud their strategic abilities. Using an inner front to spreaddissension is often enough to give you the advantage you need to overwhelm theenemy. Authority: The worst [military policy is] to assault walled cities.... If yourcommander, unable to control his temper, sends your troops swarming atthe walls, your casualties will be one in three and still you will not have taken the city.... Therefore the expert in using the military subdues theenemy's forces without going to battle, takes the enemy's walled citieswithout launching an attack.--Sun-tzu (fourth century B.C.)REVERSALThere are always likely to be disgruntled people in your own group who will beliable to turning against you from the inside. The worst mistake is to beparanoid, suspecting one and all and trying to monitor their every move. Youronly real safeguard against conspiracies and saboteurs is to keep your troopssatisfied, engaged in their work, and united by their cause. They will tend topolice themselves and turn in any grumblers who are trying to foment troublefrom within. It is only in unhealthy and decaying bodies that cancerous cells cantake root. DOMINATE WHILE SEEMING TO SUBMITTHE PASSIVE-AGGRESSION STRATEGYAny attempt to bend people to your will is a form of aggression. And in a worldwhere political considerations are paramount, the most effective form ofaggression is the best-hidden one: aggression behind a compliant, even lovingexterior. To follow the passive-aggressive strategy, you must seem to go alongwith people, offering no resistance. But actually you dominate the situation. Youare noncommittal, even a little helpless, but that only means that everythingrevolves around you. Some people may sense what you are up