that presented themselves as fields of force,sweeping the board as a whole. With such a sense for the game, he could entraphis opponents well before they were aware of what was happening, and couldfinish them off as quickly and precisely as the Ammophila delivered her sting.In fields such as sports or warfare, or any competitive endeavor where timeis of the essence, Masters’ decisions based on intuition will be much moreeffective than if they had tried to analyze all of the components and figure outthe best answer. There is too much information to consider in too short a time.Although the power of intuition was originally developed for the rapidity itbrought, it has become something that can be applied to the sciences or the arts,or to any field in which there are complex elements and time is not necessarilythe critical factor.This high-level intuition, like any skill, requires practice and experience. Atfirst, our intuitions might be so faint that we do not pay attention to them or trustthem. All Masters talk of this phenomenon. But over time they learn to noticethese rapid ideas that come to them. They learn to act on them and verify theirvalidity. Some lead nowhere, but others lead to tremendous insights. Over time,Masters find that they can call up more and more of these high-level intuitions,which are now sparking all over the brain. Accessing this level of thinking on a which are now sparking all over the brain. Accessing this level of thinking on amore regular basis, they can fuse it even more deeply with their rational forms ofthinking.Understand: this intuitive form of intelligence was developed to help usprocess complex layers of information and gain a sense of the whole. And in theworld today, the need to attain such a level of thinking is more critical than everbefore. To follow any career path is difficult, and requires the cultivation ofmuch patience and discipline. We have so many elements to master that it can beintimidating. We must learn to handle the technical aspects, the social andpolitical gamesmanship, the public reactions to our work, and the constantlychanging picture in our field. When we add to this already-daunting quantity ofstudy the vast amounts of information now available to us, and that we mustkeep on top of, it all seems beyond our capability.What happens to many of us when faced with such complexity is that we feelsubtly discouraged before we even try anything. More and more people in thisoverheated environment will be tempted to opt out. They will develop a greatertaste for ease and comfort; they will increasingly settle on simplified ideas ofreality and conventional ways of thinking; they will fall prey to seductiveformulas that offer quick and easy knowledge. They will lose a taste fordeveloping skills that require time and a resilient ego—it can hurt our self-esteem in the initial phases of learning a skill, as we are made so aware of ourawkwardness. Such people will rail against the world and blame others for theirproblems; they will find political justifications for opting