ripple effectwas spreading to the rest of the family, and Bowen's sister, the second-youngestand most unstable sibling, was beginning to display all kinds of nervoussymptoms. Bowen feared most, though, for his father, who had a weak heart. Asa family therapist, Bowen had studied a phenomenon he called an "anxietywave," in which a peripheral event could spark enough emotional turmoil to leadto the death of the family's oldest or most vulnerable member. Somehow Bowenhad to find a way to defuse this anxiety wave in his own family.Heracles had performed these Ten Labours in the space of eight years andone month; but Eurystheus, discounting the Second and the Fifth, set him twomore. The Eleventh Labour was to fetch fruit from the golden apple-tree,Mother Earth's wedding gift to Hera, with which she had been so delightedthat she planted it in her own divine garden. This garden lay on the slopes ofMount Atlas, where the panting chariot-horses of the Sun complete theirjourney, and where Atlas's sheep and cattle, one thousand herds of each,wander over their undisputed pastures. When Hera found, one day, thatAtlas's daughters, the Hesperides, to whom she had entrusted the tree, werepilfering the apples, she set the ever-watchful dragon Ladon to coil aroundthe tree as its guardian....... When at last Heracles came to the Po, the river- nymphs, daughters of Zeus and Themis, showed him Nereus asleep. He seizedthe hoary old sea-god and, clinging to him despite his many Protean changes,forced him to prophesy how the golden apples could be won....... Nereus hadadvised Heracles not to pluck the apples himself, but to employ Atlas as hisagent, meanwhile relieving him of his fantastic burden; therefore, on arrivingat the Garden of the Hesperides, he asked Atlas to do him this favor. Atlaswould have undertaken almost any task for the sake of an hour's respite, buthe feared Ladon, whom Heracles thereupon killed with an arrow shot overthe garden wall. Heracles now bent his back to receive the weight of thecelestial globe, and Atlas walked away, returning presently with three applesplucked by his daughters. He found the sense of freedom delicious. "I willtake these apples to Eurystheus myself without fail," he said, "if you hold upthe heavens for a few moments longer." Heracles pretended to agree, but,having been warned by Nereus not to accept any such offer, begged Atlas tosupport the globe for only one moment more, while he put a pad on his head.Atlas, easily deceived, laid the apples on the ground and resumed his burden;whereupon Heracles picked them up and went away with an ironical farewell.THE GREEK MYTHS, VOL. 2, ROBERT GRAVES, 1955The problem for Bowen was that he was also going through a kind ofpersonal and professional crisis at the time. One of his most influential theoriesheld that members of a family were healthy to the extent that they coulddifferentiate themselves from their siblings and parents, establishing their ownidentity, being able to make decisions on their own, while also being integratedand actively involved with the rest of the family. He saw this as