twice by a mere change of name. This fable showsthat it is not always necessary to confine ourselves to the same tactics. But,on the contrary, if we are adaptable to circumstances we can better escapedanger. FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C.InterpretationThe reality facing the Prussians in 1806 was simple: they had fallen fifty yearsbehind the times. Their generals were old, and instead of responding to presentcircumstances, they were repeating formulas that had worked in the past. Theirarmy moved slowly, and their soldiers were automatons on parade. The Prussiangenerals had many signs to warn them of disaster: their army had not performedwell in its recent engagements, a number of Prussian officers had preachedreform, and, last but not least, they had had ten years to study Napoleon--hisinnovative strategies and the speed and fluidity with which his armies convergedon the enemy. Reality was staring them in the face, yet they chose to ignore it.Indeed, they told themselves that Napoleon was the one who was doomed.You might find the Prussian army just an interesting historical example, butin fact you are likely marching in the same direction yourself. What limitsindividuals as well as nations is the inability to confront reality, to see things forwhat they are. As we grow older, we become more rooted in the past. Habit takesover. Something that has worked for us before becomes a doctrine, a shell toprotect us from reality. Repetition replaces creativity. We rarely realize we're doing this, because it is almost impossible for us to see it happening in our ownminds. Then suddenly a young Napoleon crosses our path, a person who doesnot respect tradition, who fights in a new way. Only then do we see that ourways of thinking and responding have fallen behind the times.Never take it for granted that your past successes will continue into thefuture. Actually, your past successes are your biggest obstacle: every battle,every war, is different, and you cannot assume that what worked before willwork today. You must cut yourself loose from the past and open your eyes to thepresent. Your tendency to fight the last war may lead to your final war.When in 1806 the Prussian generals...plunged into the open jaws of disasterby using Frederick the Great's oblique order of battle, it was not just a caseof a style that had outlived its usefulness but the most extreme poverty of theimagination to which routine has ever led. The result was that the Prussianarmy under Hohenlohe was ruined more completely than any army has everbeen ruined on the battlefield.--Carl von Clausewitz, ON WAR (1780-1831)THE PRESENT WARIn 1605, Miyamoto Musashi, a samurai who had made a name for himself as aswordsman at the young age of twenty-one, was challenged to a duel. Thechallenger, a young man named Matashichiro, came from the Yoshioka family, aclan itself renowned for swordsmanship. Earlier that year Musashi had defeatedMatashichiro's father, Genzaemon, in a duel. Days later he had killedGenzaemon's younger brother in another duel. The Yoshioka family wantedrevenge.I never read any treatises on strategy.... When we fight, we do