is a mere breath of air. There have been few Senecas, and fame records but one Apelles. cciv Attempt easy T asks as if they were difficult, and difficult as if they were easy . In the one case that conﬁdence may not fall asleep, in the other that it may not be dismayed. For a thing to remain undone nothing more is needed than to think it done. On the other hand, patient industry overcomes impossibilities. Great undertakings are not to be brooded over, lest their diﬃculty when seen causes despair. ccv Know how to play the Card of Contempt. It is a shrewd way of getting things you want, by aﬀecting to depreciate them: generally they are not to be had when sought for, but fall into one's hands when one is not looking for them. As all mundane things are but shadows of the things eternal, they share with shadows this quality , that they ﬂee from him who follows them and follow him that ﬂees from them. Contempt is besides the most subtle form of revenge. It is a ﬁxed rule with the wise never to defend themselves with the pen. For such defence always leaves a stain, and does more to glorify one's opponent than to punish his oﬀence. It is a trick of the worthless to stand forth as opponents of great men, so as to win notoriety by a roundabout way , which they would never do by the straight road of merit. There are many we would not have heard of if their eminent opponents had not taken notice of them. There is no revenge like oblivion, through which they are buried in the dust of their unworthiness. Audacious persons hope to make themselves eternally famous by setting ﬁre to one of the wonders of the world and of the ages. The art of reproving scandal is to take no notice of it, to combat it damages our own case; even if credited it causes discredit, and is a source of satisfaction to our opponent, for this shadow of a stain dulls the lustre of our fame even if it cannot altogether deaden it. ccvi Know that there are vulgar Natures everywhere, even in Corinth itself, even in the highest families. Every one may try the experiment within his own gates. But there is also such a thing as vulgar opposition to vulgarity , which is worse. This special kind shares all the qualities of the common kind, just as bits of a broken glass: but this kind is still more pernicious; it speaks folly , blames impertinently , is a disciple of ignorance, a patron of folly , and past master of scandal; you need not notice what it says, still less what it thinks. It is important to know vulgarity in order to avoid it, whether it is subjective or objective. For all folly is vulgarity , and the vulgar consist of fools. ccvii Be Moderate. One has to consider