swab, Ramachandran proceeded to touch theman’s legs and stomach. He reported completely normal sensations. But whenRamachandran swabbed a particular part of his cheek, the man experienced asensation both in the cheek and in the thumb of his phantom hand. Movingaround the face with the Q-tip, Ramachandran found other areas correspondingto other parts of the missing hand. The results were remarkably similar to thoseof Pons’s experiment.The implications of this one simple test were profound. It had been largelyassumed in neuroscience that the connections in the brain are hardwired at birthor in the earliest years, and are essentially permanent. The results of thisexperiment contradicted this assumption. In this case, after a traumatic accident,it appeared that the brain had altered itself in a dramatic fashion, creating wholenew networks of connections in a relatively short amount of time. This meantthat the human brain is potentially far more plastic than had been imagined. Inthis case the brain had altered itself in an odd and seemingly inexplicable way.But what if this power to alter itself could be harnessed for positive, therapeuticuses?Based on this experiment, Ramachandran decided to shift fields, moving intothe neuroscience department at UCSD and devoting his time and research toanomalous neurological disorders. He decided to take his phantom limbexperiment a step further. Many patients with a severed limb experience an oddkind of paralysis that is highly painful. They feel the phantom limb, they want to kind of paralysis that is highly painful. They feel the phantom limb, they want tomove it but cannot, and they feel a cramping and sometimes an excruciatingache. Ramachandran speculated that before the limb had been amputated thebrain had learned to experience the arm or leg as paralyzed, and once it had beenamputated it continued to feel it that way. Would it be possible, considering theplasticity of the brain, to unlearn this paralysis? And so he came up with yetanother incredibly simple experiment to test out his idea.Using a mirror that he had in his office, he proceeded to construct his ownapparatus. He took a cardboard box with the lid removed, and made twoarmholes in the front of the box. He then positioned the upright mirror inside ofit. Patients were instructed to place their good arm through one hole and theirsevered arm right up to the other hole. They were to maneuver the mirror untilthe image of their good arm was seen in the position where their other armshould be. In moving their good arm and seeing it move in the position of thesevered one, almost instantly, these patients experienced an alleviation of thefeeling of paralysis. Most of the patients who took the box home with them andpracticed with it were able to unlearn the paralysis, much to their relief.Once again, the meaning of this discovery was profound. Not only was thebrain more plastic, but the senses were also much more interconnected thanpreviously imagined. The brain did not consist of modules for each sense;instead they overlapped. In this case, pure visual stimuli had altered the sense oftouch and sensation. But