Remember: yourLife’s Task is a living, breathing organism. The moment you rigidly follow aplan set in your youth, you lock yourself into a position, and the times willruthlessly pass you by.5. Find your way back—The life-or-death strategyAs a very young child Buckminster Fuller (1895–1983) knew that heexperienced the world differently than others. He was born with extremenearsightedness. Everything around him was a blur, and so his other sensesdeveloped to compensate for this—particularly touch and smell. Even after hewas prescribed glasses at the age of five, he continued to perceive the worldaround him with more than just his eyes. He had a tactile form of intelligence.Fuller was an extremely resourceful child. He once invented a new kind of oar to help propel him across the lakes in Maine where he spent his summersdelivering mail. Its design was modeled after the motion of jellyfish, which hehad observed and studied. He could envision the dynamics of their movementwith more than his eyes—he felt the movement. He reproduced this motion inhis newfangled oar and it functioned beautifully. During such summers he woulddream of other interesting inventions—these would be his life’s work, hisdestiny.Being different, however, had its painful side. He had no patience for theusual forms of education. Although he was very bright and had been admitted toHarvard University, he could not adapt to its strict style of learning. He skippedclasses, began to drink, and led a rather bohemian lifestyle. The officials atHarvard expelled him twice—the second time for good.After that he bounced from job to job. He worked at a meatpacking plant andthen, during World War I, he secured a good position in the navy. He had anincredible feel for machines and how their parts worked in concert. But he wasrestless, and could not stay too long in one place. After the war he had a wifeand child to support, and despairing of ever being able to care for them properly,he decided to take a high-paying position as a sales manager. He worked hard,did a decent job, but after three months the company folded. He had found thework extremely unsatisfying, but it seemed that such jobs were all he couldexpect from life.Finally, a few months later, a chance appeared out of nowhere. His father-in-law had invented a way of producing materials for houses that would end upmaking them more durable and better insulated, and at a much lower cost. Butthe father could not find investors or anyone willing to help him set up abusiness. Fuller thought his idea brilliant. He had always been interested inhousing and architecture, and so he offered to take charge of implementing thisnew technology. He put everything he could into the effort and was even able toimprove on the materials to be used. Fuller’s father-in-law supported his work,and together they formed the Stockade Building System. Money from investors,mostly family members, allowed them to open factories. The company struggled—the technology was too new and radical, and Fuller was too much of a puristto compromise his desire to revolutionize the construction industry.