1920s and early '30s, most of the Communists focused ontaking cities, as the Bolsheviks had done in Russia. But Mao Tse-tung, anoutsider within the dogmatic Chinese Communist Party, was able to look atChina in a clear light and see China's center of gravity as its vast peasantpopulation. Win them to his side, he believed, and the revolution could not fail.That single insight proved the key to the Communists' success. Such is the powerof identifying the center of gravity.We often hide our sources of power from view; what most people consider acenter of gravity is often a front. But sometimes an enemy will reveal his centerof gravity by what he protects the most fervently. In bringing the Civil War intoGeorgia, General William Tecumseh Sherman discovered that the South wasparticularly anxious to protect Atlanta and the areas around it. That was theSouth's industrial center of gravity. Like Sherman, attack what the enemy mosttreasures, or threaten it to make the enemy divert forces to defend itself.In any group, power and influence will naturally devolve to a handful ofpeople behind the scenes. That kind of power works best when it is not exposedto the light of day. Once you discover this coterie holding the strings, win it over.As president during the Depression, Franklin Roosevelt faced problems from somany sides that it was difficult for him to know where his energy should go. Inthe end he decided that the key to enacting his reforms was winning overCongress. Then, within Congress, there were particular leaders who held the realpower. He concentrated on wooing and seducing these leaders with his greatcharm. It was one of the secrets to his success.What ultimately guides a group is the command-and-control center, theoperational brain that takes in information, then makes the crucial decisions.Disrupting the functioning of that brain will cause dislocation throughout theenemy army. Before almost every battle, Alexander the Great would examine theenemy's organization, pinpointing as best he could the location of the commandstructure, then either attacking it or isolating it, making it impossible for thebrain to communicate with the body.Even in a sport as physical as boxing, Muhammad Ali, in crafting a strategyto defeat his archnemesis Joe Frazier, took aim at Frazier's mind, the ultimatecenter of gravity for any individual. Before every fight, Ali would get underFrazier's skin, riling him up by calling him an Uncle Tom, a tool of the white man's media. He would keep going during the fight itself, taunting Fraziermercilessly in the ring. Frazier became obsessed with Ali, could not think abouthim without bursting with anger. Controlling Frazier's mind was the key tocontrolling his body.In any interaction with people, you must train yourself to focus on theirstrength, the source of their power, whatever it is that gives them their mostcrucial support. That knowledge will afford you many strategic options, manyangles from which to attack, subtly or not so subtly undermining their strengthrather than hitting it head-on. You can create no greater sense of panic in yourenemies than that of being unable to use their strengths.REVERSALEvery