the inner workingsof their power, particularly to someone they do not perceive as a threat.Although one mentor at a time is best, it is not always possible to find theperfect one. In such a case, an alternate strategy is to find several mentors inyour immediate environment, each one filling strategic gaps in your knowledgeand experience. Having more than one mentor has side benefits, giving youseveral connections and important allies to rely upon later on. Similarly, if yourcircumstances limit your contacts, books can serve as temporary mentors, as TheImprovement of the Mind did for Faraday. In such a case you will want toconvert such books and writers into living mentors as much as possible. Youpersonalize their voice, interact with the material, taking notes or writing in themargins. You analyze what they write and try to make it come alive—the spiritand not just the letter of their work.In a looser sense, a figure from the past or present can serve as an ideal,someone to model yourself after. Through much research and some imaginationon your part, you turn them into a living presence. You ask yourself—whatwould they do in this situation or that? Countless generals have used NapoleonBonaparte for just such a purpose.Mentors have their own strengths and weaknesses. The good ones allow youto develop your own style and then to leave them when the time is right. Suchtypes can remain lifelong friends and allies. But often the opposite will occur.They grow dependent on your services and want to keep you indentured. Theyenvy your youth and unconsciously hinder you, or become overcritical. Youmust be aware of this as it develops. Your goal is to get as much out of them aspossible, but at a certain point you may pay a price if you stay too long and letthem subvert your confidence. Your submitting to their authority is by no means them subvert your confidence. Your submitting to their authority is by no meansunconditional, and in fact your goal all along is eventually to find your way toindependence, having internalized and adapted their wisdom.In this respect, the mentor relationship often replays elements from ourchildhood. Although a mentor can be a man or a woman, he or she oftenassumes the form of a father figure—there to guide and help us, but sometimestrying to control too much and plot our life for us. He may take any attempt atindependence, even later in the relationship, as a personal assault on hisauthority. You must not allow yourself to feel any guilt when the time comes toassert yourself. Instead, as Faraday did, you should feel resentful and even angryabout his desire to hold you back, using such emotions to help you leave him. Itis often best to set up this move earlier on so that you are emotionally preparedto make it. As the relationship progresses, you can begin to slightly distanceyourself from the mentor, perhaps taking note of some of his weaknesses orcharacter flaws, or even finding fault with his most cherished beliefs.Establishing your differences with the mentor is