weeks, theGermans had advanced to the border of Egypt.What was most devastating about this offensive was the novel way in whichRommel fought. He used the desert as if it were an ocean. Despite supplyproblems and the difficult terrain, he kept his tanks in perpetual motion. TheBritish could not let up their guard for a moment, and this mentally exhaustedthem. But his movements, though seemingly random, were always for a purpose. If he wanted to take a particular city, he would head in the opposite direction,then circle and attack from an unexpected side. He brought along an armada oftrucks to kick up enough dust so that the British could not see where he washeaded and to give the impression of a much larger force than was actually onthe attack.Rommel would ride with the front line, risking death so that he could makerapid judgments on the move, sending his columns here and there before theBritish had time to figure out the game. And he used his tanks in the oppositeway of the British, to deadly effect. Instead of pushing them forward to punchholes in the enemy lines, he would send out his weakest tanks, then have themretreat at first contact; the British tanks would invariably swallow the bait and goin pursuit, kicking up so much of their own dust in the process that they wouldnot see they were running straight into a line of German antitank guns. Once asufficient number of British tanks had been taken out, Rommel would advanceagain, wreaking havoc behind the British lines.Given the same amount of intelligence, timidity will do a thousand times moredamage in war than audacity.CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ, 1780-1831Kept constantly on their heels, forced to come to rapid decisions in responseto Rommel's moves, the British made endless mistakes. Not knowing where hemight show up next, or from what direction, they spread their forces overdangerously vast areas. Before long, at the mere mention that a German columnwas approaching, Rommel at its head, the British would abandon their positions,even though they greatly outnumbered him. In the end the only thing thatstopped him was Hitler's obsession with Russia, which bled Rommel of thesupplies and reinforcements he needed to conquer Egypt.InterpretationThis is how Rommel analyzed the situation first confronting him: The enemyhad a strong position to the east, which would only get stronger as more suppliesand men came from Egypt. Rommel had a much smaller force, and the longer hewaited, the more useless it would become. And so he decided to disobey Hitler'sorders, risking his career on a truth he had learned in the blitzkrieg in France:making the first hit against the enemy completely alters the dynamic. If theenemy is the stronger side, it is upsetting and discouraging to be suddenly put onthe defensive. Being larger and unprepared makes it harder to organize anorderly retreat. To get his strategy to work, Rommel had to create maximum disorder in theenemy. In the ensuing confusion, the Germans would seem more formidable thanthey were. Speed, mobility, and surprise--as agents of such chaos--became endsin