continue to ponder his ideas—he had the unusual ability with friends, he would continue to ponder his ideas—he had the unusual abilityto listen on one track and think on another. He carried with him a little notebookand filled it up with all kinds of ideas. He reflected on his original paradox andall of the embellishments it had undergone and played around with themendlessly in his mind, imagining a thousand different possibilities. Duringalmost every waking hour he contemplated the problem from some angle orother.In the course of his deep thinking, he came up with two important principlesthat would guide him further. First, he determined that his original intuition hadto be correct—the laws of physics had to apply equally to someone at rest as tosomeone traveling at a uniform speed in a spaceship. Nothing else would makesense. And second, that the speed of light was a constant. Even if a star movingat several thousand miles per hour emitted light, the speed of such light wouldremain at 186,000 miles per second and not any faster. In this way he wouldadhere to Maxwell’s law on the invariable speed of electromagnetic waves.As he contemplated these principles further, however, another paradoxemerged in his mind in the shape of yet another image. He imagined a trainspeeding along a track with its lights beaming. A man standing on theembankment would see the light of the beam moving at the expected speed. Butwhat if a woman were running toward or away from the train on the tracks? Thewoman’s speed relative to the train would depend on how quickly she wasmoving and in which direction, but wouldn’t it be the same with the light beam?Certainly, the light beam from the train relative to the woman would travel at adifferent speed if she were running away or running toward it, and the speed ofthis beam would be different from the speed relative to the man on the tracks.This one image seemingly called into question all of his guiding principles upuntil then.For months he pondered this paradox, and by May 1905 he had decided togive up the entire matter. It seemed beyond solution. On a beautiful, sunny dayin Bern, he walked with a friend and colleague from the patent office, explainingto him the dead end he had reached, his frustration, and his decision to give up.Just as he said all of this, as Einstein later recalled, “I suddenly understood thekey to the problem.” It came to him in a grand, intuitive flash, first with animage and then with words—a split-second insight that would forever alter ourown concept of the universe.Later Einstein would illustrate his insight through the following image:Suppose a train is moving past an embankment at a constant velocity. A manstands in the center of the embankment. Just as the train moves by, lightningstrikes simultaneously at two equidistant points, A and B, to the right and left ofthe man. Suppose there is a woman seated in the middle of the train, who is the man. Suppose there is a woman seated