his career as a boxing trainer, Freddie Roach felt like he knew thebusiness well enough to become highly successful at it. (For more informationon Roach see chapter 1, pages 38–40, and chapter 3, pages 119–21.) He hadfought for years as a professional; he had a boxer’s feel for the game. His owntrainer had been the legendary Eddie Futch, who had trained Joe Frazier, amongothers. When Roach’s career as a boxer had ended in the mid-1980s, he hadserved as an apprentice trainer for several years under Futch himself. On hisown, Roach had created a novel training technique based on the use of sparringmitts. Wearing these large mitts, he could spar with and teach his fighters in thering, in real time. This added another dimension to his instruction. He workedhard at building a personal rapport with his fighters. And finally, he developedthe practice of poring over videos of opposing fighters, studying their styles indepth, and devising an effective counter-strategy based on this study.And yet despite all of this work, he sensed that something was missing.Everything would go well in practice, but in actual fights he would often watchfrom the corner with a helpless feeling as his boxers would go their own way, orwould enact only a part of the strategy he had devised. Sometimes he and hisfighters would be on the same page, sometimes not. All of this was reflected inthe winning percentage of his boxers—good but not great. He could rememberback to his own days as a fighter under Futch. He too had done well in practice, back to his own days as a fighter under Futch. He too had done well in practice,but in actual fights and in the heat of the moment, all strategy and preparationwould go out the window and he would try to punch his way to a victory. He hadalways missed something from Futch’s training. Futch had trained him well inall of the separate components of a fight (like offense, defense, and footwork),but Roach never had had a sense of the whole picture or the overall strategy. Theconnection between himself and Futch had never been that great, and so underpressure in the ring, he would suddenly just revert to his own natural way offighting. And he now seemed to be having a similar problem with his ownfighters.Trying to feel his way through to a process that would bring better results,Roach decided he needed to do for his fighters what had never been done forhimself in his own career—namely, to give them a feel for the complete pictureof the fight. He wanted them to enact this script over all the rounds, and todeepen the connection between fighter and trainer. He began by expanding themitt work, making it not just a component in the training process, but the focalpoint. Now he would spend hours sparring with his fighters over several rounds.Day after day, feeling their punches and getting a sense of the rhythm of theirfootwork, he could almost get inside their skin. He could feel their moods, thelevel