silence, a rather weakploy in this circumstance, or he may say, "Oh?" The "Oh?" is given just theproper inflection to imply, "How on earth could you have ever conceived suchan idea?" This not only places the patient in doubt about his statement, but indoubt about what the analyst means by "Oh?" Doubt is, of course, the firststep toward one-downness. When in doubt the patient tends to lean on theanalyst to resolve the doubt, and we lean on those who are superior to us.Analytic maneuvers designed to arouse doubt in a patient are instituted earlyin analysis. For example, the analyst may say, "I wonder if that's really whatyou're feeling." The use of "really" is standard in analytic practice. It impliesthe patient has motivations of which he is not aware. Anyone feels shaken,and therefore one-down, when this suspicion is placed in his mind.STRATEGIES OF PSYCHOTHERAPY, JAY HALEY, 1963You will often find yourself nursing the desire to revenge yourself on thosewho have mistreated you. The temptation is to be direct, to say something honestand mean, to let people know how you feel--but words are ineffective here. Averbal spat lowers you to the other person's level and often leaves you with a badfeeling. The sweeter revenge is an action that gives you the last laugh, leavingyour victims with a sense of vague but corrosive inferiority. Provoke them intoexposing a hidden, unpleasant side to their character, steal their moment ofglory--but make this the battle's last maneuver. That gives you the double delightof showing you are no one to mess with and inflicting a wound that sticksaround. As they say, revenge is a dish best served cold."I wonder if that's really what you're feeling." The use of "really" is standardin analytic practice. It implies the patient has motivations of which he is notaware. Anyone feels shaken, and therefore one-down, when this suspicion is placed in his mind.STRATEGIES OF PSYCHOTHERAPY, JAY HALEY, 1963 Authority: We often give our rivals the means of our own destruction.--Aesop (sixth century B.C.)REVERSALSometimes outright war is best--when, for example, you can crush your enemiesby encirclement. In the ongoing relationships of daily life, though, one-upmanship is usually the wiser strategy. It may sometimes seem therapeutic tooutfight your rivals directly; it may sometimes be appealing to send an overtlyintimidating message. But the momentary gains you may earn with a directapproach will be offset by the suspicions you arouse in your colleagues, whowill worry that someday you will strong-arm them, too. In the long run, it ismore important to secure good feelings and maintain appearances. Wisecourtiers always seem to be paragons of civilized behavior, encasing their ironfist in a velvet glove. TAKE SMALL BITESTHE FAIT ACCOMPLI STRATEGYIf you seem too ambitious, you stir up resentment in other people; overt powergrabs and sharp rises to the top are dangerous, creating envy, distrust, andsuspicion. Often the best solution is to take small bites, swallow little territories,playing upon people's relatively short attention spans. Stay under the radar andthey won't see your moves. And if they do, it may