employed in less tortuous circumstances, but with thesame purpose of getting an individual to act naturally in a role because, infact, he does not know that he is playing a false one. For example, take thedesign of the "Man Who Never Was" operation during World War II--whereina high-level courier carrying secret papers containing misdirectionsregarding the Mediterranean invasion was to be washed up on the coast ofSpain. After the "Major" was dropped in Spanish waters, the British attachein Spain was "confidentially" told that papers of great importance had beenlost, and that he should discreetly determine whether the courier's briefcasehad been recovered. The attache was thus able to act out his part in the fake-out in a very convincing manner by virtue of the fact that for him it wasn't anact.THE SECRETS OF D DAY, GILLES PERRAULT, 1965 Camouflage. The ability to blend into the environment is one of the mostterrifying forms of military deception. In modern times Asian armies haveproven particularly adept in this art: at the battles of Guadalcanal and Iwo Jimaduring World War II, American soldiers were astounded at the ability of theirJapanese foes to blend into the various terrains of the Pacific theater. By sewinggrass, leaves, twigs, and foliage to their uniforms and helmets, the Japanesewould merge with the forest--but the forest would incrementally advance,undetected until it was too late. Nor could the Americans pinpoint the Japaneseguns, for their barrels were concealed in natural rock crevices or were hidden under removable camouflage covers. The North Vietnamese were equallybrilliant at camouflage, reinforcing their skills by the use of tunnels andunderground chambers that allowed armed men to pop up seemingly anywhere.Worse, in a different kind of camouflage, they could blend into the civilianpopulation. Preventing your enemies from seeing you until it is too late is adevastating way to control their perceptions.The camouflage strategy can be applied to daily life in two ways. First, it isalways good to be able to blend into the social landscape, to avoid callingattention to yourself unless you choose to do so. When you talk and act likeeveryone else, mimicking their belief systems, when you blend into the crowd,you make it impossible for people to read anything particular in your behavior.(Appearances are all that count here--dress and talk like a businessman and youmust be a businessman.) That gives you great room to move and plot withoutbeing noticed. Like a grasshopper on a leaf, you cannot be picked from yourcontext--an excellent defense in times of weakness. Second, if you are preparingan attack of some sort and begin by blending into the environment, showing nosign of activity, your attack will seem to come out of nowhere, doubling itspower. The hypnotic pattern: According to Machiavelli, human beings naturally tendto think in terms of patterns. They like to see events conforming to theirexpectations by fitting into a pattern or scheme, for schemes, whatever theiractual content, comfort us by suggesting that the chaos of life is predictable. Thismental habit offers excellent ground for deception, using a strategy thatMachiavelli calls "acclimatization"--deliberately creating