alter the appearance of objects. Hedevoted hundreds of pages in his notebooks to exploring the various gradationsof shadows in every possible combination. He gave this same attention to thefolds of a gown, the patterns in hair, the various minute changes in theexpression of a human face. When we look at his work we are not consciouslyaware of these efforts on his part, but we feel how much more alive and realistichis paintings are, as if he had captured reality.In general, try approaching a problem or idea with a much more open mind.Let your study of the details guide your thinking and shape your theories. Thinkof everything in nature, or in the world, as a kind of hologram—the smallest partreflecting something essential about the whole. Immersing yourself in detailswill combat the generalizing tendencies of the brain and bring you closer toreality. Make sure, however, that you do not become lost in the details and losesight of how they reflect the whole and fit into a larger idea. That is simply theother side of the same disease.Confirming paradigms and ignoring anomalies:In any field there are inevitable paradigms—accepted ways of explaining reality.This is necessary; without such paradigms we would not be able to make senseof the world. But sometimes these paradigms end up dominating our way ofthinking. We routinely look for patterns in the world that confirm the paradigms thinking. We routinely look for patterns in the world that confirm the paradigmswe already believe in. The things that do not fit the paradigm—the anomalies—tend to be ignored or explained away. In truth, anomalies themselves contain therichest information. They often reveal to us the flaws in our paradigms and openup new ways of looking at the world. You must turn yourself into a detective,deliberately uncovering and looking at the very anomalies that people tend todisregard.In the late nineteenth century several scientists noted the strangephenomenon of rare metals like uranium emitting luminescent rays of anunknown nature, without any exposure to light. But nobody paid much attentionto this. It was assumed that someday a rational explanation for this phenomenonwould come up, one that fit with general theories of matter. But to the scientistMarie Curie, this anomaly was precisely the subject that needed to beinvestigated. She intuited that it contained the potential for expanding ourconcept of matter. For four long years Marie, with the help of her husband,Pierre, devoted her life to studying this phenomenon, which she eventuallynamed radioactivity. In the end her discovery completely altered scientists’ viewon matter itself, which had previously been seen as containing static and fixedelements, but now was revealed to be much more volatile and complex.When Larry Page and Sergey Brin, the founders of Google, examined thesearch engines that existed in the mid-1990s, they focused exclusively on theseemingly trivial flaws in systems such as AltaVista, the anomalies. Thesesearch engines, which were the hottest startups of the time, ranked searchesmostly based on the number of times the subject had been mentioned in a givenarticle. Although this method sometimes produced results that were unhelpful