Mozart. He is generally consideredthe epitome of the child prodigy and the inexplicable genius, a freak of nature.How else are we to explain his uncanny abilities at such a young age, and theten-year burst of creative activity at the end of his life that culminated in somany innovations and universally loved works? In truth, his genius andcreativity is eminently explicable, which does not at all diminish hisachievements.Immersed in and enchanted by music from the very beginning of his life, hebrought to his earliest studies a high level of focus and intensity. The mind of afour-year-old is even more open and impressionable than that of a child a fewyears older. Much of this powerful attention stemmed from his deep love ofmusic. And so practicing the piano was not some kind of chore or duty, but anopportunity to expand his knowledge and to explore more musical possibilities.By the age of six, he had accumulated the hours of practice of someone twice hisage. The years of touring exposed him to every possible trend and innovation ofhis time. His mind became filled with an extensive vocabulary of forms andstyles.In his adolescence Mozart experienced a typical creative crisis, one that oftendestroys or derails those who are less tenacious. For close to eight years, underpressure from his father, the archbishop, and the court of Salzburg, and bearingthe burden of supporting his family, he had to temper his own powerful creativeurges. At this critical point he could have succumbed to this dampening of hisspirit and continued to write relatively tame pieces for the court. He would havethen ended up among the lesser-known composers of the eighteenth century.Instead he rebelled and reconnected with his childlike spirit—that original desireof his to transform the music into his own voice, to realize his dramatic urges inopera. With all of his pent-up energy, his long apprenticeship, the deep level ofhis knowledge, he naturally exploded with creativity once he had freed himselffrom his family. The speed with which he could compose such masterpieces isnot a reflection of some divine gift, but rather of how powerfully his mind hadcome to think in musical terms, which he could translate easily onto paper. Hewas not a freak, but a signpost of the outer reaches of the creative potential weall naturally possess.The Dimensional Mind has two essential requirements: one, a high level ofknowledge about a field or subject; and two, the openness and flexibility to usethis knowledge in new and original ways. The knowledge that prepares theground for creative activity largely comes from a rigorous apprenticeship in which we have mastered all of the basics. Once the mind is freed from having tolearn these basics, it can focus on higher, more creative matters. The problem forus all is that the knowledge we gain in the Apprenticeship Phase—includingnumerous rules and procedures—can slowly become a prison. It locks us intocertain methods and forms of thinking that are one-dimensional. Instead, themind must be forced from its conservative positions and made active andexploratory.To awaken the Dimensional Mind and move through the