made ceaseless calculations, but they wereall wondrously unsatisfactory. He found that he could establish nothing. Hefinally concluded that the only way to prove himself was to go into the blaze,and then figuratively to watch his legs to discover their merits and faults. Hereluctantly admitted that he could not sit still and with a mental slate andpencil derive an answer. To gain it, he must have blaze, blood, and danger,even as a chemist requires this, that, and the other. So he fretted for an opportunity.THE RED BADGE OF COURAGE, STEPHEN CRANE, 1871-1900The swordsman was sympathetic: he would teach the poor visitor the art ofdying, but first he wanted to be served some tea. The tea master proceeded toperform the ritual, his manner calm, his concentration perfect. Finally thefencing master yelled out in excitement, "No need for you to learn the art ofdeath! The state of mind you're in now is enough for you to face any samurai.When you see your challenger, imagine you're about to serve tea to a guest. Takeoff your coat, fold it up carefully, and lay your fan on it just as you do at work."This ritual completed, the tea master was to raise his sword in the same alertspirit. Then he would be ready to die.The tea master agreed to do as his teacher said. The next day he went tomeet the samurai, who could not help but notice the completely calm anddignified expression on his opponent's face as he took off his coat. Perhaps, thesamurai thought, this fumbling tea master is actually a skilled swordsman. Hebowed, begged pardon for his behavior the day before, and hurried away.When circumstances scare us, our imagination tends to take over, filling ourminds with endless anxieties. You need to gain control of your imagination,something easier said than done. Often the best way to calm down and giveyourself such control is to force the mind to concentrate on something relativelysimple--a calming ritual, a repetitive task that you are good at. You are creatingthe kind of composure you naturally have when your mind is absorbed in aproblem. A focused mind has no room for anxiety or for the effects of anoveractive imagination. Once you have regained your mental balance, you canthen face the problem at hand. At the first sign of any kind of fear, practice thistechnique until it becomes a habit. Being able to control your imagination atintense moments is a crucial skill. Unintimidate yourself. Intimidation will always threaten your presence ofmind. And it is a hard feeling to combat.During World War II, the composer Dmitry Shostakovich and several of hiscolleagues were called into a meeting with the Russian ruler Joseph Stalin, whohad commissioned them to write a new national anthem. Meetings with Stalinwere terrifying; one misstep could lead you into a very dark alley. He wouldstare you down until you felt your throat tighten. And, as meetings with Stalinoften did, this one took a bad turn: the ruler began to criticize one of the composers for his poor arrangement of his