the higher branches of themilitary slowly began to thin.Lin finally realized what Mao was up to, but it was too late. He had lost hispower base. Frustrated and scared, he resorted to plotting a coup d'etat, adesperate act that played straight into Mao's hands. In 1971, Lin died undersuspicious circumstances in a plane crash.As Mao understood, in political environments people depend on theirconnections even more than on their talents. In such a world, a person whosecareer seems to be waning is one whom few will want to know. And people whofeel isolated will often overreact and do something desperate--which of coursejust makes them more isolated. So Mao created the impression that Lin waslosing his connections. Had he attacked Lin directly, he would have gottenbogged down in an ugly fight. Dividing the minister from his power base, and inthe process making him appear to be on the decline, was much more effective.Before you launch an outright attack on your enemies, it is always wise firstto weaken them by creating as much division in their ranks as possible. Onegood place to drive a wedge is between the leadership and the people, whethersoldiers or citizenry; leaders function poorly when they lose their support amongthe people. So work to make them look authoritarian or out of touch. Or stealtheir foundation, as the Republican president Richard Nixon did in 1972 bywooing the blue-collar types who had traditionally voted Democrat: he split theDemocrats' base. (The Republicans have been doing the same thing ever since.)Remember: once your enemy begins to splinter in any way, the rupture will tendto gain momentum. Division usually leads to more division.In 338 B.C., Rome defeated its greatest enemy at the time, the Latin League--a confederation of Italian cities that had formed to block Rome's expansion.With this victory, however, the Romans faced a new problem: how to govern theregion. If they crushed the league's members, they would leave a power vacuum,and down the road another enemy would emerge that might prove a still-greaterthreat. If they simply swallowed up the cities of the league, they would dilute thepower and prestige of Rome, giving themselves too large an area to protect andpolice.The solution the Romans came up with, which they would later call divide etimpera (divide and rule), was to become the strategy by which they forged their empire. Essentially they broke up the league but did not treat all of its partsequally. Instead they created a system whereby some of its cities wereincorporated into Roman territory and their residents given full privileges asRoman citizens; others were deprived of most of their territory but granted near-total independence; and others still were broken up and heavily colonized withRoman citizens. No single city was left powerful enough to challenge Rome,which retained the central position. (As the saying goes, all roads led to Rome.)The key to the system was that if an independent city proved itself loyalenough to Rome or fought well enough for Rome, it won the chance of beingincorporated into the empire. The individual cities now