or down, and not be locked into a rigidhorizontal line, like a ship. Trying to free the machine from the effects of thewind was actually quite dangerous, because it would remove the ability of thepilot to adjust.Armed with this knowledge, it was easy enough for Wilbur to convince hisbrother that a flying machine should be their next and ultimate challenge. Theywould have to use their limited profits from the bicycle shop to fund the project.This would force them to be creative, using scrap parts and never trying anythingbeyond their means. Instead of beginning with a grandiose device to test outtheir ideas, they would have to slowly evolve the perfect design, just as they haddone with the printing press and the bicycle.They decided to begin as modestly as possible. They designed various kitesto help them determine the perfect overall shape for a test glider. Then, based onwhat they had learned, they fashioned the glider itself. They wanted to teachthemselves how to fly. The usual method of launching a glider off the crest of ahill was too dangerous. Instead, they decided to move operations to Kitty Hawk,North Carolina, the site of the strongest winds in the United States. There, on thesand dunes of the beaches at Kitty Hawk, they could get airborne from smallelevations, fly close to the ground, and land in a soft bed of sand. In the year1900 alone they were able to perform more test flights than Lilienthal hadattempted over many years. They slowly perfected the design, and improved thematerials and configuration—for instance, they learned to make the wings longerand thinner to improve the lift. By 1903 they had a glider they could fly forconsiderable distances, with remarkable control over turning and banking. It wasindeed like a flying bicycle.Now it was time to take the final step—adding the engine and propellers totheir design. As before, they looked at the designs of their rivals and noticedanother weakness: they had modeled their propellers on those of boats, onceagain opting for stability. Based on their own research, the brothers decided thatthe blades should be cambered, like the wings of a bird—that would give theplane more thrust. Looking to purchase the lightest engine to power the machine,they found it was far beyond their budget. So with the help of a mechanic intheir shop, they built their own engine. In total, the cost of their flying apparatuswould come in under $1,000—considerably less than any of the designs of theircompetitors.On December 17, 1903, Wilbur piloted their flying machine at Kitty Hawkfor an impressive fifty-nine seconds—the first manned, controlled, and powered for an impressive fifty-nine seconds—the first manned, controlled, and poweredflight in history. Over the years they would improve the design, and the flighttimes would increase. For the other competitors in the race it was a completemystery how two men without any engineering or aeronautic experience orfinancial backing had managed to get there first. The development of the airplane represents one of the greatest technologicalachievements in our history, with profound ramifications for the future. Theresimply was