of strategy, which was considered far toodangerous for them to know. To maintain strategy and the arts of war as a branchof specialized knowledge is actually to play into the hands of the elites andrepressive powers, who like to divide and conquer. If strategy is the art of gettingresults, of putting ideas into practice, then it should be spread far and wide,particularly among those who have been traditionally kept ignorant of it,including women. In the mythologies of almost all cultures, the great gods ofwar are women, including Athena of ancient Greece. A woman's lack of interestin strategy and war is not biological but social and perhaps political.Instead of resisting the pull of strategy and the virtues of rational warfare orimagining that it is beneath you, it is far better to confront its necessity.Mastering the art will only make your life more peaceful and productive in thelong run, for you will know how to play the game and win without violence.Ignoring it will lead to a life of endless confusion and defeat.The following are six fundamental ideals you should aim for in transformingyourself into a strategic warrior in daily life. Look at things as they are, not as your emotions color them. In strategy youmust see your emotional responses to events as a kind of disease that must beremedied. Fear will make you overestimate the enemy and act too defensively.Anger and impatience will draw you into rash actions that will cut off your options. Overconfidence, particularly as a result of success, will make you gotoo far. Love and affection will blind you to the treacherous maneuvers of thoseapparently on your side. Even the subtlest gradations of these emotions can colorthe way you look at events. The only remedy is to be aware that the pull ofemotion is inevitable, to notice it when it is happening, and to compensate for it.When you have success, be extra wary. When you are angry, take no action.When you are fearful, know you are going to exaggerate the dangers you face.War demands the utmost in realism, seeing things as they are. The more you canlimit or compensate for your emotional responses, the closer you will come tothis ideal.Although a goddess of war, [Athena] gets no pleasure from battle...but ratherfrom settling disputes, and upholding the law by pacific means. She bears noarms in time of peace and, if ever she needs any, will usually borrow a setfrom Zeus. Her mercy is great.... Yet, once engaged in battle, she never losesthe day, even against Ares himself, being better grounded in tactics andstrategy than he; and wise captains always approach her for advice.THE GREEK MYTHS, VOL. 1, ROBERT GRAVES, 1955Judge people by their actions. The brilliance of warfare is that no amount ofeloquence or talk can explain away a failure on the battlefield. A general has ledhis troops to defeat, lives have been wasted, and that is how history will judgehim. You must strive to apply this ruthless standard in your daily life, judgingpeople by the results of their