rolled but recorded nofilm.Passive aggression is so common in daily life that you have to know how toplay defense as well as offense. By all means use the strategy yourself; it is tooeffective to drop from your armory. But you must also know how to deal withthose semiconscious passive-aggressive types so prevalent in the modern world,recognizing what they are up to before they get under your skin and being ableto defend yourself against this strange form of attack.First, you must understand why passive aggression has become soomnipresent. In the world today, the expression of overt criticism or negativefeelings toward others has become increasingly discouraged. People tend to takecriticism far too personally. Furthermore, conflict is something to be avoided atall costs. There is great societal pressure to please and be liked by as manypeople as possible. Yet it is human nature to have aggressive impulses, negativefeelings, and critical thoughts about people. Unable to express these feelingsopenly, without fear of being disliked, more and more people resort to a kind ofconstant, just-below-the-surface passive aggression.The idiom represents an archetype in world literature: a person with asmiling face and a cruel heart, dubbed a "smiling tiger" in Chinese folklore.THE WILES OF WAR, TRANSLATED BY SUN HAICHEN, 1991Most often their behavior is relatively harmless: perhaps they are chronicallylate, or make flattering comments that hide a sarcastic sting, or offer help butnever follow through. These common tactics are best ignored; just let them washover you as part of the current of modern life, and never take them personally.You have more important battles to fight.There are, however, stronger, more harmful versions of passive aggression,acts of sabotage that do real damage. A colleague is warm to your face but saysthings behind your back that cause you problems. You let someone into your lifewho proceeds to steal something valuable of yours. An employee takes on animportant job for you but does it slowly and badly. These types do harm but areexcellent at avoiding any kind of blame. Their modus operandi is to createenough doubt that they were the ones who did the aggressive act; it is never theirfault. Somehow they are innocent bystanders, helpless, the real victims in thewhole dynamic. Their denials of responsibility are confusing: you suspect theyhave done something, but you cannot prove it, or, worse, if they are reallyskillful, you feel guilty for even thinking them at fault. And if in your frustration you lash out at them, you pay a high price: they will focus attention on yourangry, aggressive response, your overreaction, distracting your thoughts from thepassive-aggressive maneuvers that got you so irritated in the first place. Theguilt you feel is a sign of the power they have over you. Indeed, you canvirtually recognize the harmful variety of passive aggression by the strength ofemotions it churns up in you: not superficial annoyance but confusion, paranoia,insecurity, and anger.To defeat the passive-aggressive warrior, you must first work on yourself.This means being acutely aware of the blame-shifting tactic as it happens.Squash any feelings of guilt it might begin