to turnyour weakness to advantage.Difficulties with other people are inevitable; you must be willing to defend yourself and sometimes to take the offensive. The modern dilemma is that takingthe offensive is unacceptable today--attack and your reputation will suffer, youwill find yourself politically isolated, and you will create enemies and resistance.The counterattack is the answer. Let your enemy make the first move, then playthe victim. Without overt manipulation on your part, you can control youropponents' minds. Bait them into a rash attack; when it ends up in disaster, theywill have only themselves to blame, and everyone around them will blame them,too. You win both the battle of appearances and the battle on the field. Very fewstrategies offer such flexibility and power. Authority: The whole art of war consists in a well-reasoned andextremely circumspect defensive, followed by a rapid and audaciousattack.--Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821)REVERSALThe counterattack strategy cannot be applied in every situation: there will alwaysbe times when it is better to initiate the attack yourself, gaining control byputting your opponents on the defensive before they have time to think. Look atthe details of the situation. If the enemy is too smart to lose patience and attackyou, or if you have too much to lose by waiting, go on the offensive. It is alsousually best to vary your methods, always having more than one strategy to drawon. If your enemies think you always wait to counterattack, you have the perfectsetup for moving first and surprising them. So mix things up. Watch the situationand make it impossible for your opponents to predict what you will do.Conditions are such that the hostile forces favored by the time are advancing.In this case retreat is the right course, and it is through retreat that success isachieved. But success consists in being able to carry out the retreat correctly.Retreat is not to be confused with flight. Flight means saving oneself underany circumstances, whereas retreat is a sign of strength. We must be careful not to miss the right moment while we are in full possession of power andposition. Then we shall be able to interpret the signs of the time before it istoo late and to prepare for provisional retreat instead of being drawn into adesperate life-and-death struggle. Thus we do not simply abandon the field tothe opponent; we make it difficult for him to advance by showingperseverance in single acts of resistance. In this way we prepare, whileretreating, for the counter-movement. Understanding the laws of aconstructive retreat of this sort is not easy. The meaning that lies hidden insuch a time is important. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C. CREATE A THREATENING PRESENCEDETERRENCE STRATEGIESThe best way to fight off aggressors is to keep them from attacking you in thefirst place. To accomplish this you must create the impression of being morepowerful than you are. Build up a reputation: You're a little crazy. Fighting youis not worth it. You take your enemies with you when you lose. Create thisreputation and make it credible with a few impressive--impressively