and confidence is not a moral issue but a strategic one:sometimes it is necessary, sometimes it isn't. People will break their word if itserves their interests, and they will find any moral or legal excuse to justify theirmoves, sometimes to themselves as well as to others.Just as you must always put yourself in the strongest position before battle,so it is with negotiation. If you are weak, use negotiations to buy yourself time,to delay battle until you are ready; be conciliatory not to be nice but tomaneuver. If you are strong, take as much as you can before and duringnegotiations--then later you can give back some of what you took, conceding thethings you least value to make yourself look generous. Do not worry about yourreputation or about creating distrust. It is amazing how quickly people will forgetyour broken promises when you are strong and in a position to offer themsomething in their self-interest.Therefore, a prudent ruler ought not to keep faith when by so doing it wouldbe against his interest.... If men were all good, this precept would not be agood one; but as they are bad, and would not observe their faith with you, soyou are not bound to keep faith with them. Nor have legitimate grounds everfailed a prince who wished to show colorable excuse for the nonfulfillment ofhis promise.--Niccolo Machiavelli, The Prince (1469-1527)JADE FOR TILEEarly in 1821 the Russian foreign minister, Capo d'Istria, heard news he had longbeen awaiting: a group of Greek patriots had begun a rebellion against the Turks (Greece was then part of the Ottoman Empire), aiming to throw them out andestablish a liberal government. D'Istria, a Greek nobleman by birth, had longdreamed of involving Russia in Greek affairs. Russia was a growing militarypower; by supporting the revolution--assuming the rebels won--it would gaininfluence over an independent Greece and Mediterranean ports for its navy. TheRussians also saw themselves as the protectors of the Greek Orthodox Church,and Czar Alexander I was a deeply religious man; leading a crusade against theIslamic Turks would satisfy his moral consciousness as well as Russian politicalinterests. It was all too good to be true.Only one obstacle stood in d'Istria's way: Prince Klemens von Metternich,the Austrian foreign minister. A few years earlier, Metternich had brought Russiainto an alliance with Austria and Prussia called the Holy Alliance. Its goal was toprotect these nations' governments from the threat of revolution and to maintainpeace in Europe after the turmoil of the Napoleonic Wars. Metternich hadbefriended Alexander I. Sensing that the Russians might intervene in Greece, hehad sent the czar hundreds of reports claiming that the revolution was part of aEurope-wide conspiracy to get rid of the continent's monarchies. If Alexandercame to Greece's aid, he would be the revolutionaries' dupe and would beviolating the purpose of the Holy Alliance.D'Istria was no fool: he knew that what Metternich really wanted was toprevent Russia from expanding its influence in the Mediterranean, which wouldupset England and destabilize Europe, Metternich's greatest fear. To d'Istria itwas simple: he and Metternich were at