with the past. From now on, he would recruit onlysoldiers of a certain kind: men who, like himself, had experienced religiousvisions and revelations. He sounded out the aspirants, tested them for the depthof their faith. Departing from a long tradition, he appointed commoners, notaristocrats, as officers; as he wrote to a friend, "I had rather have a plain russet-coated captain that knows what he fights for, and loves what he knows, than thatwhich you call a gentleman and is nothing else." Cromwell made his recruitssing psalms and pray together. In a stern check on bad discipline, he taught themto see all their actions as part of God's plan. And he looked after them in anunusual way for the times, making sure they were well fed, well clothed, andpromptly paid.When Cromwell's army went into battle, it was now a force to reckon with.The men rode in tight formation, loudly singing psalms. As they neared theking's forces, they would break into a "pretty round trot," not the headlong anddisorderly charge of other troops. Even in contact with the enemy, they kept theirorder, and they retreated with as much discipline as when they advanced. Sincethey believed that God was with them, they had no fear of death: they couldmarch straight up a hill into enemy fire without breaking step. Having gainedcontrol over his cavalry, Cromwell could maneuver them with infinite flexibility.His troops won battle after battle.In 1645, Cromwell was named lieutenant general of the cavalry in the NewModel Army. That year, at the Battle of Naseby, his disciplined regiment wascrucial in the Roundheads' victory. A few days later, his cavalry finished off the Royalist forces at Langport, effectively putting an end to the first stage of theCivil War.InterpretationThat Cromwell is generally considered one of history's great military leaders isall the more remarkable given that he learned soldiery on the job. During thesecond stage of the Civil War, he became head of the Roundhead armies, andlater, after defeating King Charles and having him executed, he became LordProtector of England. Although he was ahead of his times with his visions ofmobile warfare, Cromwell was not a brilliant strategist or field tactician; hissuccess lay in the morale and discipline of his cavalry, and the secret to thosewas the quality of the men he recruited--true believers in his cause. Such menwere naturally open to his influence and accepting of his discipline. With eachnew victory, they grew more committed to him and more cohesive. He could askthe most of them.Above all else, then, pay attention to your staff, to those you recruit to yourcause. Many will pretend to share your beliefs, but your first battle will showthat all they wanted was a job. Soldiers like these are mercenaries and will getyou nowhere. True believers are what you want; expertise and impressiveresumes matter less than character and the capacity for sacrifice. Recruits ofcharacter will give you a staff already open to your influence, making moraleand discipline infinitely easier to attain. This core personnel will spread thegospel for you, keeping