his ability to attune himself to theirenergies. With tranquil and productive social relations, he could focus more ofhis time and attention to writing, to questions of science, to his endlessinventions—to mastery.It might be deduced from Benjamin Franklin’s story that social intelligencerequires a detached, emotionless approach to people, making life rather dull inthe process, but this is hardly the case. Franklin himself was by nature a veryemotional man. He did not repress this nature, but rather turned his emotions inthe opposite direction. Instead of obsessing over himself and what other peoplewere not giving him, he thought deeply of how they were experiencing theworld, what they were feeling and missing. Emotions seen inside other peoplecreate empathy and bring a deep understanding of what makes them tick. ForFranklin, this outward focus gave him a pleasant feeling of lightness and ease;his life was hardly dull, but simply free of unnecessary battles.Understand: you will continue to have problems in attaining socialintelligence until you come to the realization that your view of people isdominated by the Naïve Perspective. Following Franklin’s example, you can reach this awareness by reviewing your past, paying particular attention to anybattles, mistakes, tensions, or disappointments on the social front. If you look atthese events through the lens of the Naïve Perspective, you will focus only onwhat other people have done to you—the mistreatments you endured from them,the slights or injuries you felt. Instead, you must turn this around and begin withyourself—how you saw in others qualities they did not possess, or how youignored signs of a dark side to their nature. In doing this, you will be able toclearly see the discrepancy between your illusions about who they are and thereality, and the role you played in creating this discrepancy. If you look closelyenough, you can often perceive in your relationships with bosses or superiorsreenactments of the childhood family dynamic—the idealizing or demonizingthat has become habitual.By making yourself aware of the distorting process of the Naïve Perspective,you will naturally grow less comfortable with it. You will realize that you areoperating in the dark, blind to people’s motivations and intentions, vulnerable tothe same mistakes and patterns that occurred in the past. You will feel your lackof real connection to other people. The desire will naturally arise from within tochange this dynamic—to start looking outward instead of focusing only on yourown feelings, to observe before you react.This new clarity about your perspective should be accompanied by anadjustment of your attitude. You must avoid the temptation to become cynical inyour approach as an overreaction to your prior naïveté. The most effectiveattitude to adopt is one of supreme acceptance. The world is full of people withdifferent characters and temperaments. We all have a dark side, a tendency tomanipulate, and aggressive desires. The most dangerous types are those whorepress their desires or deny the existence of them, often acting them out in themost underhanded ways. Some people have dark qualities that are especiallypronounced. You cannot change such people at their core, but must merely avoidbecoming their victim.