where or how to begin the actualprocess, he started to sketch out various possibilities for these doors. As a childhe had loved to draw, and he was constantly sketching. He had become soproficient with a pencil or brush that he could draw almost anything with greatspeed and accuracy. He could sketch as fast as he could think, his innermostvisions translated with ease onto paper.Without any sense of where he was headed, he began to draw in watercolors,putting everything that came to him on paper, almost in a free-associativemanner. For some reason, the image of a beached whale occurred to him and sohe drew it. He took it further and metamorphosed the whale into the warehouse,the teeth and mouth of the whale opening into the bay door. Now he understoodthe image. It was as if the warehouse had become Jonah’s whale, disgorgingtrucks and materials from its mouth. On the margin of the drawing he wrote, “thebuilding as a living organism.” As he stared at the sketch, his attention wasdrawn to the rather large whale eye he had painted to the side of the mouth/baydoor. It seemed like an interesting metaphor all by itself, and indicated a newdirection to take.He began to do different drawings of eyes on the sides of the warehouse,with the eyes turning into the doors. Now his drawings took on more detail andbecame more architectural as he began to sketch out the actual sides of thebuilding and the doors in a more realistic rendering, but still based on theopening and closing of an enormous eye. In the end, this would turn into theactual design of the folding doors that would raise themselves up in the curved actual design of the folding doors that would raise themselves up in the curvedshape of an eyelid.By the end of the design process Calatrava had generated a large number ofsketches, and as he thumbed through them in sequential order, he could see amost interesting progression—from the loose imaginings of his unconscious tomore and more precise renderings. Even in the most accurate sketches of thefaçade, however, there was still apparent some kind of artistic and playfulelement. To look at the drawings was almost to see the gradual development of aphotograph in a chemical tray. Taking this form of attack was immenselysatisfying. It gave him the feeling of creating something that was alive. Workingin this way, his emotions were deeply engaged as he played upon all kinds ofmetaphors, both mythical and Freudian.In the end, his design had a strange and powerful effect. Working with onlythe façade of the building, he had created the look of a Greek temple, thealuminum undulating like silver columns. The bay doors added a surreal touch,and when folded up, looked even more like the entranceway to a temple. All ofthis blended perfectly with the functionality of the structure. It was a greatsuccess, and garnered him immediate attention.As the years went by, one important commission followed another. Workingon increasingly larger projects, Calatrava could see clearly the dangers ahead ofhim. Completing a