defenses against passive aggression polarity strategy and turning strategy of Corvey, J.F.A. Le Miere de Coughlin, Charles counterattack strategy counterbalance strategy counterinsurgency Courage (Crane) Covey, Edward Cox, James Crane, Stephen Crassus, Marcus Licinius Crawford, Joan Davis and death-ground strategy of one-upmanship of Shearer and creativity Cremony, John Croesus (last king of Lydia) Cromwell, Oliver Cromwell, Thomas Cronkite, Walter Crook, George Cukor, George Curtiz, Michael Cycnus Cyrus II, king of Persia Dali, Salvador on alliances Breton and center-of-gravity strategy and inner front strategy of Dalton, Georgia Darius I, king of Persia Darius III, king of Persia David Davidovich, Paul Davis, Bette Davis, Jefferson D-Day death fear of imminent, as motivator unreality of death ground, psychological death-ground strategy deception strategies in ancient warfare camouflage danger of decoy attack false front hypnotic pattern necessity of planted information shadows within shadows defeat accepting blame for gradations of seeds of victory in Defeat into Victory (Slim) defeatism defensiveness defensive warfare counterattack strategy deterrence strategies nonengagement strategy perfect-economy strategy Delmar, Vina Democratic Party Denmark desperation and urgency, creating a sense of Dessalines, Jean-Jacques D'Este, Carlo deterrence strategies basic methods examples Dewey, Thomas Dial M for Murder Diamond Lil Dien Bien Phu, battle at dilemmas Diomedes diplomacy diplomatic-war strategy. See negotiation dirty warfare. See unconventional warfare discipline discontent. See complaints and discontent Discourses, The (Machiavelli) disorder, maximum divide-and-conquer strategy divide-and-rule strategy Dixit, Avinashi Dole, Elizabeth Dole, Robert Donat, Robert Dost Mahomed Khan Dostoyevsky, Fyodor epilepsy of imprisonment of writing of Douglass, Frederick Dragonwars (Bell) Drake, Francis dreams/dreaming Duchamp, Marcel Dudley, Robert dumb, playing Dunne, Irene Dupuy, T. N. Durckheim, Karlfried Graf von Durnford, Anthony William Eastern Europe, Soviet Union and East India Company Ecce Homo (Nietzche) Echidne education, as limiting factor Edward I, king of England Edward II, king of England Edward III, king of England Edward IV, king of England effective truth efficiency ego(s) group Egypt/Egyptians Persians and in World War II in Yom Kippur War Eisenhower, Dwight D. El Al hijacking (1968) Elizabeth I, queen of England divide-and-rule strategy of leadership style of Spanish Armada and spy network of Elizabeth Petrovna, empress of Russia Eluard, Paul and Gala Emerson, Ralph Waldo emotions. See also specific emotions alliances and appealing to contagiousness of controlling during endings manipulating passive-aggression strategy and encirclement (envelopment) psychological ultimate form of endings. See exits and endings enemy(ies) adaptation by befriending choosing confusing decentralized declaring war on dilemmas for elusive enveloping having fewer resources than your identifying infiltration of. See inner-front strategy inner intelligence gathering on knowing Latin root of word open, rarity of outer perceptions held by powerful power sources of revealing secret self-destruction of uses for weaknesses, pinpointing weak salient, exposure on England. See Great Britain enthusiasm. See morale (motivation) envelopment. See encirclement (envelopment) Epeius Erickson, Milton H. Erie Railroad Essex, earl of Etherington-Smith, Meredith Eurystheus Eurytion Everitt, Anthony exits and endings as beginnings emotional resonance of importance of Nietzsche on timing of worst method for exterior maneuver moral warfare as extraordinary, ordinary and Fabius (Roman general) fait accompli strategy