staying open to change in a dynamic situation. Instead of lettingbad fortune face him down, Napoleon incorporated it into his plans. When helearned that Massena had been forced back to Genoa, he saw that the fight forthe city would lock Melas into a static position, giving Napoleon time to movehis men into place. When Moreau sent him a smaller division, Napoleon sent itthrough the Alps by a narrower, more obscure route, throwing more sand in theeyes of the Austrians trying to figure out how many men he had available. WhenMassena unexpectedly surrendered, Napoleon realized that it would be easiernow to bait Melas into attacking his divisions, particularly if he moved themcloser. At Marengo itself he knew all along that his first reinforcements wouldarrive sometime after three in the afternoon. The more disorderly the Austrianpursuit of the French, the more devastating the counterattack would be.Napoleon's power to adjust and maneuver on the run was based in his novelway of planning. First, he spent days studying maps and using them to make adetailed analysis. This was what told him, for example, that putting his army atStradella would pose a dilemma for the Austrians and give him many choices ofways to destroy them. Then he calculated contingencies: if the enemy did x, howwould he respond? If part y of his plan misfired, how would he recover? Theplan was so fluid, and gave him so many options, that he could adapt it infinitelyto whatever situation developed. He had anticipated so many possible problemsthat he could come up with a rapid answer to any of them. His plan was a mix ofdetail and fluidity, and even when he made a mistake, as he did in the early partof the encounter at Marengo, his quick adjustments kept the Austrians fromtaking advantage of it--before they'd figured out what to do, he was alreadysomewhere else. His devastating freedom of maneuver cannot be separated fromhis methodical planning.Understand: in life as in war, nothing ever happens just as you expect it to.People's responses are odd or surprising, your staff commits outrageous acts ofstupidity, on and on. If you meet the dynamic situations of life with plans that arerigid, if you think of only holding static positions, if you rely on technology tocontrol any friction that comes your way, you are doomed: events will changefaster than you can adjust to them, and chaos will enter your system.In an increasingly complex world, Napoleon's way of planning andmaneuvering is the only rational solution. You absorb as much information andas many details as possible; you analyze situations in depth, trying to imaginethe enemy's responses and the accidents that might happen. You do not get lostin this maze of analysis but rather use it to formulate a free-flowing plan withbranches, one that puts you in positions with the possibility of maneuver. You keep things loose and adjustable. Any chaos that comes your way is channeledtoward the enemy. In practicing this policy, you will come to understandNapoleon's dictum that luck is something you create.Now the army's