hemade stump speeches about how he was the one to enact reforms in a measured,rational way. The contrast between Landon and Roosevelt was one oftemperament and character, and it seemed to resonate: in the polls, Landonpulled into the lead.Sensing that the election would be close and feeling that this was their greatchance, the Republicans escalated their attacks, accusing Roosevelt of classwarfare and painting a bleak picture of his next term. The anti-Rooseveltnewspapers published a slew of editorials attacking him in personal terms. Thechorus of criticism grew, and the Republicans watched gleefully as many inRoosevelt's camp seemed to panic. One poll had Landon building a substantiallead.Not until late September, a mere six weeks before the election, did Rooseveltfinally start his campaign--and then, to everyone's shock, he dropped thenonpartisan, presidential air that he had worn so naturally. Positioning himselfclearly to Landon's left, he drew a sharp contrast between the two candidates. Hequoted with great sarcasm Landon's speeches supporting the New Deal butclaiming to be able to do it better: why vote for a man with basically the sameideas and approach but with no experience in making them work? As the dayswent by, Roosevelt's voice grew louder and clearer, his gestures more animated, his oratory even biblical in tone: he was David facing the Goliath of the big-business interests that wanted to return the country to the era of monopolies androbber barons.The Republicans watched in horror as Roosevelt's crowds swelled. All thosewhom the New Deal had helped in any way showed up in the tens of thousands,and their response to Roosevelt was almost religious in its fervor. In oneparticularly rousing speech, Roosevelt catalogued the moneyed interests arrayedagainst him: "Never before in our history," he concluded, "have these forcesbeen so united against one candidate as they stand today. They are unanimous intheir hate for me--and I welcome their hatred.... I should like to have it said ofmy second administration that in it these forces met their master."Landon, sensing the great change in the tide of the election, came out withsharper attacks and tried to distance himself from the New Deal, which he hadearlier claimed to support--but all of this only seemed to dig him a deeper hole.He had changed too late, and clearly in reaction to his waning fortunes.On Election Day, Roosevelt won by what at the time was the greatestpopular margin in U.S. electoral history; he won all but two states, and theRepublicans were reduced to sixteen seats in the Senate. More amazing than thesize of his unprecedented victory was the speed with which he had turned thetide.InterpretationAs Roosevelt followed the Republican convention, he clearly saw the line theywould take in the months to come--a centrist line, emphasizing values andcharacter over policy. Now he could lay the perfect trap by abandoning the field.Over the weeks to come, Landon would pound his moderate position into thepublic's mind, committing himself to it further and further. Meanwhile the moreright-wing Republicans would attack the president in bitter, personal terms.Roosevelt knew that a time would come when Landon's