British soldiers. Feeling isolated and antagonized,many of them began to desert or find ways to be sent home.Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a divided householdfalls. And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdomstand?LUKE 11:14News of the problems in Massachusetts spread north and south; colonistseverywhere began to talk about Britain's actions in Boston, its use of force, itshidden taxes, its patronizing attitude. Then, in 1773, Parliament passed the TeaAct, on the surface a rather harmless attempt to solve the economic problems ofthe East India Company by giving it a virtual monopoly on the sale of tea in thecolonies. The law also levied a nominal tax, but, even so, it would have made teacheaper in the colonies, because the middlemen--the colonial importers--were tobe cut out. The Tea Act, however, was deceptive in its effect, and confusing, andAdams saw in it a chance to apply the coup de grace: it would ruin manycolonial tea importers, and it did include a hidden tax, yet another form oftaxation without representation. In exchange for cheaper tea, the English weremaking a mockery of democracy. In language more fiery than ever, Adamsbegan to turn out articles opening up the old wounds from the Stamp Act and theBoston Massacre.When East India Company ships began to arrive in Boston at the end of thatyear, Adams helped to organize a nationwide boycott of their tea. Nodockworker would unload the cargo, no warehouse would store it. Then, onenight in mid-December, after Adams had addressed a town meeting about theTea Act, a group of members of the Sons of Liberty--disguised as MohawkIndians, body paint and all--erupted in war whoops, charged to the wharves,boarded the tea ships, and destroyed their cargo, cutting open the cases of teaand pouring them into the harbor, all of this done with great revelry.This provocative act, which later became known as the Boston Tea Party,was the turning point. The British could not tolerate it and quickly closed downBoston harbor and imposed military law on Massachusetts. Now all doubtvanished: pushed into a corner by Adams, the British were acting just astyrannically as he had prophesied they would. The heavy military presence inMassachusetts was predictably unpopular, and it was only a matter of months before violence erupted: in April 1775, English soldiers fired on Massachusettsmilitiamen in Lexington. This "shot heard 'round the world" became the sparkfor the war that Adams had so diligently worked to kindle out of nothing.InterpretationBefore 1765, Adams labored under the belief that well-reasoned argumentswould be enough to convince the colonists of the rightness of his cause. But asthe years of failure piled up, he confronted the reality that the colonists retaineda deep emotional attachment to England, as children do to a parent. Libertymeant less to them than did England's provision of protection and a sense ofbelonging in a threatening environment. When Adams realized this, hereformulated his goals: instead of preaching independence and the ideas of JohnLocke, he set to work to sever the colonists' ties with England. He made