the harbor. His soldiers were divided in heart and mind.They were thinking about the wrong things--their wives, their dreams of gold,their plans for the future. And in the backs of their minds there was always anescape route: if this conquest business went badly, they could go home. Thoseships in the harbor were more than just transportation; they represented Cuba,the freedom to leave, the ability to send for reinforcements--so manypossibilities.For the soldiers the ships were a crutch, something to fall back on if thingsgot ugly. Once Cortes had identified the problem, the solution was simple:destroy the ships. By putting his men in a desperate place, he would make themfight with utmost intensity.A sense of urgency comes from a powerful connection to the present. Insteadof dreaming of rescue or hoping for a better future, you have to face the issue athand. Fail and you perish. People who involve themselves completely in theimmediate problem are intimidating; because they are focusing so intensely, theyseem more powerful than they are. Their sense of urgency multiplies theirstrength and gives them momentum. Instead of five hundred men, Cortessuddenly had the weight of a much larger army at his back.Like Cortes you must locate the root of your problem. It is not the peoplearound you; it is yourself, and the spirit with which you face the world. In theback of your mind, you keep an escape route, a crutch, something to turn to ifthings go bad. Maybe it is some wealthy relative you can count on to buy yourway out; maybe it is some grand opportunity on the horizon, the endless vistas oftime that seem to be before you; maybe it is a familiar job or a comfortablerelationship that is always there if you fail. Just as Cortes's men saw their shipsas insurance, you may see this fallback as a blessing--but in fact it is a curse. Itdivides you. Because you think you have options, you never involve yourselfdeeply enough in one thing to do it thoroughly, and you never quite get what youwant. Sometimes you need to run your ships aground, burn them, and leaveyourself just one option: succeed or go down. Make the burning of your ships asreal as possible--get rid of your safety net. Sometimes you have to become alittle desperate to get anywhere.The ancient commanders of armies, who well knew the powerful influence ofnecessity, and how it inspired the soldiers with the most desperate courage,neglected nothing to subject their men to such a pressure.--Niccolo Machiavelli (1469-1527) THE DEATH-AT-YOUR-HEELS TACTICIn 1845 the writer Fyodor Dostoyevsky, then twenty-four, shook the Russianliterary world with the publication of his first novel, Poor Folk. He became thetoast of St. Petersburg society. But something about his early fame seemedempty to him. He drifted into the fringes of left-wing politics, attending meetingsof various socialist and radical groups. One of these groups centered on thecharismatic Mikhail Petrashevsky.Three years later, in 1848, revolution broke out all across Europe. Inspiredby what was happening in the West, Russian radical groups like Petrashevsky'stalked of following suit.