the Afghan masses. Presenting a plan forthat purpose, he also promised aid in money and expertise. He told Karmal thatonce the borders were secured, the Afghan army built up, and the peoplereasonably satisfied with the government, Karmal should politely ask the Sovietsto leave.Solitudinem faciunt pacem appellant (They create desolation and call itpeace).TACITUS, CIRCA A.D. 55-CIRCA 120The invasion itself went more easily than the Soviets had expected, and forthis military phase their leaders could confidently declare "missionaccomplished." But within weeks of Andropov's visit, they had to adjust thisassessment: the mujahideen were not intimidated by the Soviet army, as theEastern Europeans had been. In fact, since the invasion their power only seemedto grow, their ranks swelling with both Afghan recruits and outsiders. Ustinovfunneled more soldiers into Afghanistan and ordered a series of offensives inparts of the country that were sheltering the mujahideen. The Soviets' first majoroperation was that spring, when they moved into the Kunar Valley with heavyweaponry, leveling entire villages and forcing the inhabitants to flee to refugeecamps in Pakistan. Having cleared the area of rebels, they withdrew.A few weeks later, reports came in that the mujahideen had quietly returnedto the Kunar Valley. All the Soviets had done was leave the Afghans moreembittered and enraged, making it easier for the mujahideen to recruit. But whatcould the Soviets do? To let the rebels alone was to give the mujahideen the timeand space to grow more dangerous, yet the army was too small to occupy wholeregions. Its answer was to repeat its police operations again and again, but withmore violence, hoping to intimidate the Afghans--but, as Orgakov had predicted, this only emboldened them.ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL:still the fine's the crown; Whate'er the course, the end is the renown.ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL, WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, 1564-1616Ten thousand Muslims then marched through the mountain valleys uponMecca. Muhammad divided his force into four columns.... Muhammad gavestrict orders that no violence was to be used. His own tent was pitched onhigh ground immediately overlooking the town. Eight years before, he hadfled from Mecca under cover of darkness, and lain hidden three days in acave on Mount Thor, which from his tent he could now see rising beyond thecity. Now ten thousand warriors were ready to obey his least command andhis native town lay helpless at his feet. After a brief rest, he remounted hiscamel and entered the town, reverently touched the black stone andperformed the seven ritual circuits of the kaaba.... Muhammad the Conquerorwas not vindictive. A general amnesty was proclaimed, from which less than adozen persons were excluded, only four being actually executed. Ikrima, theson of Abu Jahal, escaped to the Yemen, but his wife appealed to the Apostle,who agreed to forgive him.... The Muslim occupation of Mecca was thusvirtually bloodless. The fiery Khalid ibn al Waleed killed a few people at thesouthern gate and was sharply reprimanded by Muhammad for doing so.Although the Apostle had himself been persecuted in the city and althoughmany of his bitterest opponents were still living there, he won all