as Gould slowly established himself as one of thegreatest pianists who has ever lived, Guerrero began to realize how deeply hisformer pupil had absorbed all of his ideas. He would read reviews of Gould’sperformances in which the critic would note how he seemed to play Bach as if itwere on the harpsichord, something soon echoed by others. His posture, his wayof crouching and leaning over the instrument made him look like an uncannydouble of the younger Guerrero; his finger work was so unusually powerful, itwas clear he had spent years using the exercises Guerrero had taught him. Ininterviews, Gould would talk about the importance of learning a piece of musicon paper before performing it, but he would say it all as if it were his own idea.Strangest of all, Gould played particular pieces of music as Guerrero had alwaysimagined them in his mind, but with a verve and style that he could never havematched. It was as if his former protégé had internalized the essence of his styleand transfigured it into something greater. As a child, Glenn Gould intuited his great dilemma. He had an uncanny ear formusic; he was so responsive that he could pick up the nuances of another pianoplayer and reproduce them after a single hearing. At the same time, he knew thathe was a peculiar young man with very distinct tastes. He had the ambition tobecome a master performer. If he listened too closely to teachers and other become a master performer. If he listened too closely to teachers and otherperformers and picked up their ideas or styles, he would lose his sense ofidentity in the process. But he also needed knowledge and mentorship. Thisdilemma became particularly acute with Alberto Guerrero, who was acharismatic teacher. It is often a curse to learn under someone so brilliant andaccomplished—your own confidence becomes crushed as you struggle to followall of their great ideas. Many pianists become lost in the shadow of theirillustrious mentors and never amount to anything.Because of his ambition, Gould found his way to the only real solution tothis dilemma. He would listen to all of Guerrero’s ideas about music and trythem out. In the course of playing, he would subtly alter these ideas to suit hisinclinations. This would make him feel that he had his own voice. As the yearswent by, he made this differentiation between himself and his instructor morepronounced. Because he was so impressionable, over the course of theapprenticeship he had unconsciously internalized all of the important ideas of hismentor, but through his own active engagement he had managed to adapt themto his individuality. In this way, he could learn and yet incubate a creative spiritthat would help set him apart from everyone else once he left Guerrero.As apprentices, we all share in this dilemma. To learn from mentors, wemust be open and completely receptive to their ideas. We must fall under theirspell. But if we take this too far, we become so marked by their influence that wehave no internal space to incubate