within you, then youcan become what you were fated to become—an individual, a Master.STRATEGIES FOR FINDING YOUR LIFE’S TASKThe misery that oppresses you lies not in your profession but in yourself! What man in theworld would not find his situation intolerable if he chooses a craft, an art, indeed any formof life, without experiencing an inner calling? Whoever is born with a talent, or to a talent,must surely find in that the most pleasing of occupations! Everything on this earth has itsdifficult sides! Only some inner drive—pleasure, love—can help us overcome obstacles,prepare a path, and lift us out of the narrow circle in which others tread out their anguished,miserable existences!—JOHANN WOLFGANG VON GOETHEIt might seem that connecting to something as personal as your inclinations andLife’s Task would be relatively simple and natural, once you recognize theirimportance. But in fact it is the opposite. It requires a good deal of planning andstrategizing to do it properly, since so many obstacles will present themselves.The following five strategies, illustrated by stories of Masters, are designed todeal with the main obstacles in your path over time—the voices of othersinfecting you, fighting over limited resources, choosing false paths, getting stuckin the past, and losing your way. Pay attention to all of them because you willalmost inevitably encounter each one in some form.1. Return to your origins—The primal inclination strategyFor Masters, their inclination often presents itself to them with remarkableclarity in childhood. Sometimes it comes in the form of a simple object that clarity in childhood. Sometimes it comes in the form of a simple object thattriggers a deep response. When Albert Einstein (1879–1955) was five, his fathergave him a compass as a present. Instantly, the boy was transfixed by the needle,which changed direction as he moved the compass about. The idea that there wassome kind of magnetic force that operated on this needle, invisible to the eyes,touched him to the core. What if there were other forces in the world equallyinvisible yet equally powerful—ones that were undiscovered or not understood?For the rest of his life all of his interests and ideas would revolve around thissimple question of hidden forces and fields, and he would often think back to thecompass that had sparked the initial fascination.When Marie Curie (1867–1934), the future discoverer of radium, was four yearsold she wandered into her father’s study and stood transfixed before a glass casethat contained all kinds of laboratory instruments for chemistry and physicsexperiments. She would return to that room again and again to stare at theinstruments, imagining all sorts of experiments she could conduct with thesetubes and measuring devices. Years later, when she entered a real laboratory forthe first time and did some experiments herself, she reconnected immediatelywith her childhood obsession; she knew she had found her vocation.When the future film director Ingmar Bergman (1918–2007) was nine years oldhis parents gave his brother for Christmas a cinematograph—a moving picturemachine with strips of film that projected simple scenes. He had to have it forhimself. He traded his own toys to