directions in mathematicsthat were so far ahead of his time, it is hard to fathom where they came from.This is a somewhat extreme example, but the story reveals somethingelemental about the need for tension. The feeling that we have endless time tocomplete our work has an insidious and debilitating effect on our minds. Ourattention and thoughts become diffused. Our lack of intensity makes it hard forthe brain to jolt into a higher gear. The connections do not occur. For thispurpose you must always try to work with deadlines, whether real ormanufactured. Faced with the slenderest amount of time to reach the end, themind rises to the level you require. Ideas crowd upon one another. You don’thave the luxury of feeling frustrated. Every day represents an intense challenge,and every morning you wake up with original ideas and associations to push youalong.If you don’t have such deadlines, manufacture them for yourself. Theinventor Thomas Edison understood how much better he worked under pressure.He would deliberately talk to the press about an idea before it was ready. Thiswould create some publicity and excitement in the public as to the possibilitiesof the proposed invention. If he dropped the ball or let too much time pass, hisreputation would suffer, and so his mind would spark into high gear and hewould make it happen. In such cases your mind is like the army that is nowbacked up against the sea or a mountain and cannot retreat. Sensing theproximity of death, it will fight harder than ever.Emotional Pitfalls When we arrive at the Creative-Active phase in our career, we are confronted bynew challenges that are not simply mental or intellectual. The work is moredemanding; we are on our own and the stakes are higher. Our work is now morepublic and highly scrutinized. We might have the most brilliant ideas and a mindcapable of handling the greatest intellectual challenges, but if we are not careful,we will tumble into emotional pitfalls. We will grow insecure, overly anxiousabout people’s opinions, or excessively self-confident. Or we will become boredand lose a taste for the hard work that is always necessary. Once we fall intothese traps it is hard to extricate ourselves; we lose the necessary perspective tosee where we have gone wrong. Better to be aware of these pitfalls in advanceand never step into them. The following are the six most common pitfalls thatthreaten us along the way.Complacency: In childhood, the world seemed like an enchanted place.Everything that we encountered had an intensity to it, and sparked feelings ofwonder. Now, from our mature viewpoint, we see this wonderment as naïve, aquaint quality we have outgrown with our sophistication and vast experience ofthe real world. Such words as “enchantment” or “wonder” cause us to snicker.But imagine for an instant that the opposite is the case. The fact that life beganon its own so many billions of years ago, that a conscious species such as oursever came about and evolved into our present form, that we have visited themoon and come to understand vital