was remarkably concrete—almost always in terms of imagesthat related to the everyday objects around him, such as trains, clocks, andelevators. Thinking in this concrete way, he could turn a problem over and overin his mind, consider it from all angles while walking, talking to others, or sittingat his desk at the patent office. He would later explain that imagination andintuition played a far larger role in his discoveries than his knowledge of scienceand mathematics. If he had any qualities that were extraordinary, they were hispatience mixed with his extreme tenacity. After what can only be considered aswell beyond 10,000 hours of contemplation of one problem, he reached atransformation point. The various aspects of a supremely complicatedphenomenon had become internalized, leading to an intuitive grasp of the whole—in this case, the sudden image that came to him revealing the relativity oftime. His two theories of relativity have to be considered as perhaps the greatestintellectual feats in history, the fruits of intense labor and not of someextraordinary, inexplicable genius.There are many paths to mastery, and if you are persistent you will certainlyfind one that suits you. But a key component in the process is determining yourmental and psychological strengths and working with them. To rise to the levelof mastery requires many hours of dedicated focus and practice. You cannot getthere if your work brings you no joy and you are constantly struggling toovercome your own weaknesses. You must look deep within and come to anunderstanding of these particular strengths and weaknesses you possess, being asrealistic as possible. Knowing your strengths, you can lean on them with utmostintensity. Once you start in this direction, you will gain momentum. You will notbe burdened by conventions, and you will not be slowed down by having to dealwith skills that go against your inclinations and strengths. In this way, yourcreative and intuitive powers will be naturally awakened.B. In thinking back to her earliest years in the 1950s, Temple Grandin could onlyrecall a dark and chaotic world. Born with autism, she could remember spendinghours on the beach watching grains of sand pour through her hands. (For moreon Grandin see pages 43–45 and 156–58.) She lived in a world of constantterrors—any sudden noise would overwhelm her. It took her much longer thanother children to learn language, and as she slowly did, she became painfully aware of how different she was from other children. Often alone, she naturallygravitated toward animals, particularly horses. It was more than just a need forcompanionship—she somehow felt an unusual identification and empathy withthe world of animals. Her great passion was to go horseback riding in thecountry around Boston where she was raised. In riding horses, she could deepenher connection to them.Then one summer, as a young girl, she was sent to visit her Aunt Ann, whohad a ranch in Arizona. Temple felt an instant connection with the cattle on theranch, and she would watch them for hours. What particularly intrigued her wasthe squeeze chute they would enter to be vaccinated. The pressure from the