new way of casting. Instead of breaking up the mold for the horse into sections, Leonardo would construct the mold as one seamlesspiece (using an unusual mix of materials he had concocted) and cast it as awhole, which would give the horse a much more organic, natural appearance.A few months later, however, war broke out and the duke needed every bit ofbronze he could lay his hands on for artillery. Eventually, the clay statue wastaken down and the horse was never built. Other artists had scoffed atLeonardo’s folly—he had taken so long to find the perfect solution thatnaturally, events had conspired against him. One time even Michelangelohimself taunted Leonardo: “You who made a model of a horse you could nevercast in bronze and which you gave up, to your shame. And the stupid people ofMilan had faith in you?” He had become used to such insults about his slownessat work, but in fact he regretted nothing from this experience. He had been ableto test out his ideas on how to engineer large-scale projects; he would apply thisknowledge elsewhere. Anyway, he didn’t care so much about the finishedproduct; it was the search and process in creating something that had alwaysexcited him.Reflecting on his life in this way, he would have clearly detected theworkings of some kind of hidden force within him. As a child this force haddrawn him to the wildest part of the landscape, where he could observe the mostintense and dramatic variety of life. This same force compelled him to stealpaper from his father and devote his time to sketching. It pushed him toexperiment while working for Verrocchio. It guided him away from the courts ofFlorence and the insecure egos that flourished among artists. It compelled him toan extreme of boldness—the gigantic sculptures, the attempt to fly, thedissection of hundreds of corpses for his anatomical studies—all to discover theessence of life itself.Seen from this vantage point, everything in his life made sense. It was in facta blessing to have been born illegitimate—it allowed him to develop in his ownway. Even the paper in his house seemed to indicate some kind of destiny. Whatif he had rebelled against this force? What if, after the Sistine Chapel rejection,he had insisted on going to Rome with the others and forced his way into thePope’s good graces instead of seeking his own path? He was capable of that.What if he had devoted himself to mostly painting in order to make a goodliving? What if he had been more like the others, finishing his works as fast aspossible? He would have done well, but he would not have been Leonardo daVinci. His life would have lacked the purpose that it had, and inevitably thingswould have gone wrong.This hidden force within him, like that within the iris he had sketched somany years before, had led to the full flowering of his capacities. He had many years before, had led to the full flowering of his capacities. He hadfaithfully followed its guidance to the very end