tool orinstrument; this elaborate system existed entirely in their minds. By building adeep connection to the environment and reading all of the available signs, theIslanders could approximate the remarkable instinctual powers of animals, suchas various bird species that can navigate around the globe through their extremesensitivity to the earth’s geomagnetic field.Understand: the ability to connect deeply to your environment is the mostprimal and in many ways the most powerful form of mastery the brain can bringus. It applies equally well to the waters of Micronesia as it does to any modernfield or office. We gain such power by first transforming ourselves intoconsummate observers. We see everything in our surroundings as a potentialsign to interpret. Nothing is taken at face value. Like the Islanders, we can breakthese observations down into various systems. There are the people with whomwe work and interact—everything they do and say reveals something hiddenbelow the surface. We can look at our interactions with the public, how theyrespond to our work, how people’s tastes are constantly in flux. We can immerseourselves in every aspect of our field, paying deep attention, for example, to theeconomic factors that play such a large role. We become like the Proustianspider, sensing the slightest vibration on our web. Over the years, as we progress spider, sensing the slightest vibration on our web. Over the years, as we progresson this path, we begin to merge our knowledge of these various components intoan overall feel for the environment itself. Instead of exerting and overtaxingourselves to keep up with a complex, changing environment, we know it fromthe inside and can sense the changes before they happen.For the Caroline Islanders, there was nothing unconventional in theirapproach to mastery; their method fit perfectly their circumstances. But for us, inour advanced technological age, such mastery involves making anunconventional choice. To become such sensitive observers, we must notsuccumb to all of the distractions afforded by technology; we must be a littleprimitive. The primary instruments that we depend on must be our eyes forobserving and our brains for analyzing. The information afforded to us throughvarious media is only one small component in our connection to theenvironment. It is easy to become enamored with the powers that technologyaffords us, and to see them as the end and not the means. When that happens, weconnect to a virtual environment, and the power of our eyes and brain slowlyatrophy. You must see your environment as a physical entity and yourconnection to it as visceral. If there is any instrument you must fall in love withand fetishize, it is the human brain—the most miraculous, awe-inspiring,information-processing tool devised in the known universe, with a complexitywe can’t even begin to fathom, and with dimensional powers that far outstrip anypiece of technology in sophistication and usefulness.2. Play to your strengths—Supreme FocusA. In the first years of the life of their child, the parents of Albert Einstein(1879–1955) had cause for concern. It took longer than usual for little Albert totalk, and his first attempts at language were always so