interests seemed constricted to the claustrophobic court and itsintrigues.Goethe felt trapped—he had accepted a position with the duke and took itmost seriously, but he found it hard to tolerate the social life to which he wasnow condemned. As a confirmed realist in life, however, he found it useless tocomplain about what he could not change. And so, accepting his fellow courtiersas his companions for the next few years, Goethe devised a strategy, making avirtue out of necessity: He would talk very little, rarely venturing an opinion onanything. He would get his interlocutors to go on and on and about this or thatsubject. He would wear a pleasant mask as he listened, but inwardly he wouldobserve them as if they were figures in a stage play. They would reveal to himtheir secrets, their petty dramas, and their inane ideas, and all the while he wouldsmile and always take their side.What the courtiers did not realize was that they were supplying him withendless material—for characters, bits of dialogue, and stories of folly that wouldfill the plays and novels he was to write in the future. In this way he transformedhis social frustrations into a most productive and pleasant game.The great Austrian-American film director Josef von Sternberg (1894–1969) hadrisen from studio errand boy to become one of the most successful directors inHollywood during the 1920s and ’30s. He developed along the way a particularphilosophy that would serve him well throughout his directorial career, whichwould last into the 1950s: all that mattered was the final product. His role was toget everyone on the same page and guide the production according to the visionhe had, employing whatever means necessary to get the results he wanted. Andthe greatest impediment to realizing his vision came inevitably from the actors.They thought first and foremost of their careers. The film as a whole matteredless than the attention they received for their part. This would make them try tosteal the limelight, and in the process they would alter the quality of the film.With such actors, von Sternberg would have to find a way to trick or beguilethem into doing his bidding.In 1930, von Sternberg was invited to Berlin to direct what would be his most famous film, The Blue Angel, which would feature the world-renownedactor Emil Jannings. In looking for the female lead for the film, von Sternbergdiscovered a relatively unknown German actress named Marlene Dietrich, whomhe would go on to direct in seven feature films, singlehandedly transforming herinto a star. Von Sternberg had worked with Jannings before and knew that theactor was an impossibly foolish person. Jannings did everything he could todisrupt the flow of the production. He took as a personal affront any attempt bythe director to direct him. His whole method was to goad the director intouseless battles and wear him down until he relented and let Jannings do as hewished.Von Sternberg was prepared for all of this and went to war in his own way.He steeled himself against Jannings’s childish games. Jannings demanded thatthe director show