to make you feel. These types can bevery ingratiating, using flattery to draw you into their web, preying on yourinsecurities. It is often your own weakness that sucks you into the passive-aggressive dynamic. Be alert to this.Second, once you realize you are dealing with the dangerous variety, thesmartest move is to disengage, at best to get the person out of your life, or at theleast to not flare up and cause a scene, all of which plays into his hands. Youneed to stay calm. If it happens to be a partner in a relationship in which youcannot disengage, the only solution is to find a way to make the person feelcomfortable in expressing any negative feelings toward you and encouraging it.This may be hard to take initially, but it may defuse his or her need to beunderhanded; and open criticisms are easier to deal with than covert sabotage.The Spaniard Hernan Cortes had many passive-aggressive soldiers in thearmy with which he conquered Mexico, men who outwardly accepted hisleadership but were inwardly treacherous. Cortes never confronted or accusedthese people, never lashed out at them at all; instead he quietly figured out whothey were and what they were up to, then fought fire with fire, maintaining afriendly front but working behind the scenes to isolate them and bait them intoattacks in which they revealed themselves. The most effective counterstrategywith the passive-aggressive is often to be subtle and underhanded right back atthem, neutralizing their powers. You can also try this with the less harmfultypes--the ones who are chronically late, for instance: giving them a taste of theirown medicine may open their eyes to the irritating effects of their behavior.In any event, you must never leave the passive-aggressive time and space inwhich to operate. Let them take root and they will find all kinds of sly ways topull you here and there. Your best defense is to be sensitive to any passive-aggressive manifestations in those around you and to keep your mind as free aspossible from their insidious influence. Authority: As dripping water wears through rock, so the weak andyielding can subdue the firm and strong.--Sun Haichen, Wiles of War (1991)It is not pathological to attempt to gain control of a relationship, we all dothis, but when one attempts to gain that control while denying it, then such aperson is exhibiting symptomatic behavior. In any relationship that stabilizes,such as that between a husband and wife, the two people work outagreements about who is to control what area of the relationship.... Arelationship becomes psychopathological when one of the two people willmaneuver to circumscribe the other's behavior while indicating he is not. Thewife in such a relationship will force her husband to take care of the house insuch a way that she denies she is doing so. She may, for example, haveobscure dizzy spells, an allergy to soap, or various types of attacks whichrequire her to lie down regularly. Such a wife is circumscribing her husband'sbehavior while denying that she is doing this; after all, she cannot