writing, partlyintentionally--they are out to explain themselves, after all--and partly helplesslyto the skilled reader-between-the-lines.Motive of attack. --One attacks someone not only so as to harm him or tooverpower him but perhaps only so as to learn how strong he is.FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1844-1900Last year at a great conference there was a certain man who explained hisdissenting opinion and said he was resolved to kill the conference leader if itwas not accepted. His motion was passed. After the procedures were over, theman said, "Their assent came quickly. I think that they are too weak andunreliable to be counselors to the master."HAGAKURE: THE BOOK OF THE SAMURAI, YAMAMOTO TSUNETOMO, 1659-1720Finally, the enemy you are dealing with is not an inanimate object that willsimply respond in an expected manner to your strategies. Your enemies areconstantly changing and adapting to what you are doing. Innovating andinventing on their own, they try to learn from their mistakes and from yoursuccesses. So your knowledge of the enemy cannot be static. Keep yourintelligence up to date, and do not rely on the enemy's responding the same waytwice. Defeat is a stern teacher, and your beaten opponent today may be wisertomorrow. Your strategies must take this possibility into account; yourknowledge of the enemy must be not just deep but timely.Colonel John Cremony commented on their adeptness at seeming to"disappear" when he wrote "an Apache can conceal his swart body amidstthe green grass, behind brown shrubs, or gray rocks, with so much addressand judgement that any but the experienced would pass him by withoutdetection at the distance of three or four yard" and noted that "they willwatch for days, scanning your every movement, observing your every act;taking exact note of your party and all its belongings. Let no one suppose thatthese assaults are made upon the spur of the moment by bands accidentallyencountered. Far from it; they are almost invariably the results of longwatching--patient waiting--careful and rigorous observation, and anxiouscounsel."WARRIORS: WARFARE AND THE NATIVE AMERICAN INDIAN,NORMAN BANCROFT-HUNT, 1995Image: The Shadow. Everyone has a shadow, a secret self, a dark side.This shadow comprises everything people try to hide from the world--their weaknesses, secret desires, selfish intentions. This shadow isinvisible from a distance; to see it you must get up close, physically andmost of all psychologically. Then it will come into relief. Follow close inyour target's footsteps and he will not notice how much of his shadow hehas revealed. REVERSALEven as you work to know your enemies, you must make yourself as formlessand difficult to read as possible. Since people really only have appearances to goon, they can be readily deceived. Act unpredictably now and then. Throw themsome golden nugget of your inner self--something fabricated that has nothing todo with who you really are. Be aware that they are scrutinizing you, and eithergive them nothing or feed them misinformation. Keeping yourself formless andinscrutable will make it impossible for people to defend themselves against youand render the intelligence they gather on you useless.In principle, I should lay it down that the existence of