action against those suspected of them.Instead the people kept quiet, and were in such a state of terror that theythought themselves lucky enough to be left unmolested even if they had saidnothing at all. They imagined that the revolutionary party was much biggerthan it really was, and they lost all confidence in themselves, being unable tofind out the facts because of the size of the city and because they hadinsufficient knowledge of each other.... Throughout the democratic partypeople approached each other suspiciously, everyone thinking that the nextman had something to do with what was going on. HISTORY OF THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR, THUCYDIDES, CIRCA 460-CIRCA 399 B.C.Sanjar had had enough. He could not spend another day like this. He was notwilling to live in constant fear, his mind deranged by uncertainty and suspicion.It was better, he thought, to negotiate with this demon. He called off hiscampaign and made peace with Hasan.Over the years, as the Ismailis' political power grew and the sect expandedinto Syria, its killers became almost mythic. The assassins had never tried toescape; their killing done, they were caught, tortured, and executed to a man, butnew ones kept on coming, and nothing seemed to deter them from completing their task. They seemed possessed, utterly devoted to their cause. Some calledthem hashshashin, from the Arabic word hashish, because they acted as if theywere drugged. European crusaders to the Holy Land heard stories about thesedevilish hashshashin and passed them on, the word slowly transforming into"assassins," passing forever into the language.InterpretationHasan-i-Sabah had one goal: to carve out a state for his sect in northern Persia,allowing it to survive and thrive within the Islamic empire. Given his relativelysmall numbers and the powers arrayed against him, he could not hope for more,so he devised a strategy that was surely history's first organized terroristcampaign for political power. Hasan's plan was deceptively simple. In theIslamic world, a leader who had won respect was invested with considerableauthority, and to the extent that he had authority, his death could sow chaos.Accordingly Hasan chose to strike these leaders, but in a somewhat random way:it was impossible to see any pattern in his choices, and the possibility of beingthe next victim was more disturbing than many could bear. In truth, except forthe castles they held, the Ismailis were quite weak and vulnerable, but bypatiently infiltrating his men deep into the heart of the sultan's administration,Hasan was able to create the illusion they were everywhere. Only fifty or soassassinations are recorded in his entire lifetime, and yet he won as muchpolitical power through them as if he had an enormous army.This power could not come by merely making individuals feel afraid. Itdepended on the effect the killings would have on the entire social group. Theweakest officials in the hierarchy were the ones who would succumb to paranoiaand voice doubts and rumors that would spread and infect those who were lessweak. The result was a ripple effect--wild swings of emotion, from anger tosurrender, up and down the line. A group caught by