inoculatedhimself against these charges by acting mercifully toward his enemies in Rome,making important reforms, and going to the extreme in showing his respect forthe Republic. By embracing some of the principles of his enemies, he kept theirattempts at moral infection from spreading.Wars are most often fought out of self-interest: a nation goes to war toprotect itself against an invading, or potentially dangerous, enemy or to seize aneighbor's land or resources. Morality is sometimes a component in the decision--in a holy war or crusade, for example--but even here self-interest usually plays arole; morality is often just a cover for the desire for more territory, more riches,more power. During World War II, the Soviet Union became a beloved ally ofthe United States, playing a key role in the defeat of Hitler, but after the war itbecame America's darkest enemy. American self-interest, not the Soviets, hadchanged.Wars of self-interest usually end when the winner's interests are satisfied.Wars of morality are often longer and bloodier: if the enemy is seen as evil, asthe infidel, it must be annihilated before the war can end. Wars of morality alsochurn up uncontrollable emotions. Luther's moral campaign against Romegenerated such hatred that in the subsequent invasion of the Holy City by thetroops of Charles V, in 1527, German soldiers went on a six-month rampageagainst the church and its officials, committing many atrocities in what came tobe known as "the sack of Rome."Successful wickedness hath obtained the name virtue...when it is for thegetting of the kingdom.THOMAS HOBBES, 1588-1679As in war, so in life. When you are involved in a conflict with anotherperson or group, there is something you are fighting over, something each sidewants. This could be money, power and position, on and on. Your interests are atstake, and there is no need to feel guilty about defending them. Such conflictstend not to be too bloody; most people are at least somewhat practical and seethe point in preventing a war from going on too long. But those people who fightout of a moral sense can sometimes be the most dangerous. They may be hungry for power and are using morality as a cover; they may be motivated by somedark and hidden grievance; but in any case they are after more than self-interest.Even if you beat them, or at least defend yourself against them successfully,discretion here may be the better part of valor. Avoid wars of morality if youcan; they are not worth the time and dirty feelings they churn up. Authority: The pivot of war is nothing but name and righteousness.Secure a good name for yourself and give the enemy a bad name;proclaim your righteousness and reveal the unrighteousness of theenemy. Then your army can set forth in a great momentum, shakingheaven and earth.--Tou Bi Fu Tan, A Scholar's Dilettante Remarks on War (sixteenth centuryA.D.)REVERSALA moral offensive has a built-in danger: if people can tell what you are doing,your righteous stance may disgust and alienate them. Unless you are facing avicious enemy, it is best to use this strategy with