can extend to such creatures. Indealing with persons as intractable and as difficult to influence as a pig or afish, the whole secret of success depends on finding the right way ofapproach. One must first rid oneself of all prejudice and, so to speak, let thepsyche of the other person act on one without restraint. Then one willestablish contact with him, understand and gain power over him. When adoor has been thus opened, the force of one's personality will influence him.If in this way one finds no obstacles insurmountable, one can undertake eventhe most dangerous things, such as crossing the great water, and succeed. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.In a political world, people are dependent on their social position. They needsupport from as many sources as possible. That support, the base of mostpeople's power, presents a rich flank to expose and attack. Franklin D. Rooseveltknew that a politician's vulnerable flank was the electorate, the people whomight or might not vote for him in his next race. Roosevelt could get a politicianto sign off on a bill or support a nomination, whatever his real thoughts about theissues, by threatening a maneuver that would injure the other man's popularitywith his constituents. A flanking attack on someone's social status and reputationwill make him or her turn to face this menace, giving you ample room tomaneuver the opponent in other directions.The Book of Changes (I Ching) is often considered the Oriental apotheosis ofadaptation, of flexibility. In this book the recurring theme is one of observinglife and blending with its flow in order to survive and develop. In effect, thetheme of this work is that everything in existence can be a source of conflict,of danger, and, ultimately, of violence if opposed from the wrong angle or inthe wrong manner--that is, if confronted directly at the point of its maximumstrength, since this approach renders the encounter potentially devastating. By the same token, any and every occurrence can be dealt with byapproaching it from the right angle and in the proper manner--that is, at itssource, before it can develop full power, or from the sides (the vulnerable"flanks of a tiger").SECRETS OF THE SAMURAI, OSCAR RATTI AND ADELEWESTBROOK, 1973The more subtle and indirect your maneuvers in life, the better. In 1801,Napoleon suddenly offered Russia the chance to become the protector of theisland of Malta, then under French control. That would give the Russians animportant base in the Mediterranean. The offer seemed generous, but Napoleonknew that the English would soon take control of the island, for they coveted itand had the forces in place to take it, and the French navy was too weak to holdit. The English and the Russians were allies, but their alliance would beendangered by a squabble over Malta. That discord was Napoleon's goal allalong.The ultimate evolution of strategy is toward more and more indirection. Anopponent who cannot see where you are heading is at a severe disadvantage. Themore angles you use--like a cue ball in billiards caroming off several sides of