endless problems and poverty and setbacks, Champollion had uncoveredthe key to the hieroglyphs in a few short months of intense labor.In the aftermath of his discovery, he would continue to translate one wordafter another and figure out the exact nature of the hieroglyphs. In the process hewould completely transform our knowledge and concept of ancient Egypt. Hisearliest translations revealed that hieroglyphs, as he suspected, were asophisticated combination of all three forms of symbols, and had the equivalentof an alphabet far before anyone had imagined the invention of an alphabet. Thiswas not a backward civilization of priests dominating a slave culture andkeeping secrets through mysterious symbols, but a vibrant society with acomplicated and beautiful written language, one that could be considered theequal of ancient Greek.When his discovery was broadcast, Champollion became an instant hero inFrance. But Dr. Young, his main rival in the field, could not accept defeat. Hespent the ensuing years accusing Champollion of fraud and plagiarism, unable toconceive of the idea that someone from such a modest background could pull offsuch an amazing intellectual feat. The story of Champollion versus Dr. Young contains an elemental lesson aboutthe learning process, and illustrates two classic approaches to a problem. In thecase of Young, he came to the hieroglyphic puzzle from the outside, fueled bythe ambition to be the first to decipher the hieroglyphs and gain fame in theprocess. To expedite matters, he reduced the writing system of the ancientEgyptians into tidy mathematical formulas, assuming that they representedideograms. In such a way, he could approach decipherment as if it were acomputational feat. To do so, he had to simplify what ended up being revealed asan extremely complex and layered system of writing.For Champollion, it was the opposite. He was fueled by a genuine hunger tounderstand the origins of mankind, and by a deep love of ancient Egyptianculture. He wanted to get at the truth, not gain fame. Because he saw thetranslation of the Rosetta stone as his Life’s Task, he was willing to devotetwenty or more years to the job, or whatever it took to solve the riddle. He didnot attack the problem from the outside and with formulas, but rather wentthrough a rigorous apprenticeship in ancient languages and Coptic. It ended upthat his knowledge of Coptic proved the decisive key to unraveling the secret.His knowledge of languages made him understand how complex they can be,reflecting the complexity of any great society. When he finally returned to theRosetta stone with undistracted attention in 1821, his mind shifted to theCreative-Active. He reframed the problem in holistic terms. His decision to firstlook at the two scripts—demotic and hieroglyph—as purely visual was a strokeof creative genius. In the end, he thought in greater dimensions and uncoveredenough aspects of the language to unlock it.Many people in various fields tend to follow the Young method. If they arestudying economics, or the human body and health, or the workings of the brain,they tend to work with abstractions and simplifications, reducing highly complexand interactive problems into modules, formulas, tidy