you should ignore. What you want in the end is tointernalize the voice of your Master so that you become both teacher and pupil.If you fail to do so you will have no internal gauge as to the value of your work,and you will be blown here and there by the opinions of others, never to findyourself.Impatience: This is perhaps the single greatest pitfall of them all. Thisquality continually haunts you, no matter how disciplined you might think youare. You will convince yourself that your work is essentially over and well done,when really it is your impatience speaking and coloring your judgment. Youtend to lose the energy you had when you were younger and hungrier.Unconsciously, you will veer toward repetition—reusing the same ideas andprocesses as a kind of shortcut. Unfortunately, the creative process requirescontinual intensity and vigor. Each exercise or problem or project is different.Hurrying to the end or warming up old ideas will ensure a mediocre result. Leonardo da Vinci understood the dangers of such impatience. He adopted ashis motto the expression ostinato rigore, which translates as “stubborn rigor” or“tenacious application.” For every project he involved himself in—and by theend of his life they numbered in the thousands—he repeated this to himself, sohe would attack each one with the same vigor and tenacity. The best way toneutralize our natural impatience is to cultivate a kind of pleasure in pain—likean athlete, you come to enjoy rigorous practice, pushing past your limits, andresisting the easy way out.Grandiosity: Sometimes greater danger comes from success and praise thanfrom criticism. If we learn to handle criticism well, it can strengthen us and helpus become aware of flaws in our work. Praise generally does harm. Ever soslowly, the emphasis shifts from the joy of the creative process to the love ofattention and to our ever-inflating ego. Without realizing it, we alter and shapeour work to attract the praise that we crave. We fail to understand the element ofluck that always goes into success—we often depend on being in the right placeat the right time. Instead, we come to think that our brilliance has naturallydrawn our success and attention, as if it were indeed fated. Once the ego inflatesit will only come back to earth through some jarring failure, which will equallyscar us. To avoid this fate, you must have some perspective. There are alwaysgreater geniuses out there than yourself. Luck certainly played a role, as did thehelp of your mentor and all those in the past who paved the way. What mustultimately motivate you is the work itself and the process. Public attention isactually a nuisance and a distraction. Such an attitude is the only defense againstfalling into the traps set by our ego.Inflexibility: Being creative involves certain paradoxes. You must knowyour field inside and out, and yet be able to question its most entrenchedassumptions. You must be somewhat naïve to entertain certain questions, andoptimistic that you will solve the problem at hand; at the same time, you mustregularly doubt that you have achieved your