others,weakening your enemies by isolating them. While forming convenient coalitions,keep yourself free of negative entanglements.THE PERFECT ALLYIn 1467, Charles, the thirty-four-year-old Count of Charlois, received the newshe had secretly longed for: his father, the Duke of Burgundy--known as Philipthe Good--had died, making Charles the new duke. Father and son had clashedover the years. Philip was patient and practical and during his reign had slowlymanaged to expand Burgundy's already impressive holdings. Charles was moreambitious and more warlike. The empire he inherited was immense, includingFlanders, Holland, Zeeland, and Luxembourg to the north of present-day France,and the important duchy of Burgundy itself in northeastern France. Now, asduke, Charles had the power and resources at his command to realize his dreamsof conquest into Germany and beyond.THE DOG, THE COCK AND THE FOXA dog and a cockerel, having made friends, were strolling along a roadtogether. As evening fell, the cockerel flew up into a tree to sleep there, andthe dog went to sleep at the foot of the tree, which was hollow. According tohis habit, the cockerel crowed just before daybreak. This alerted a fox nearby,who ran up to the tree and called up to the cockerel: "Do come down, sir, forI dearly wish to embrace a creature who could have such a beautiful voice as you!" The cockerel said: "I shall come down as soon as you awaken thedoorkeeper who is asleep at the foot of the tree." Then, as the fox went to lookfor the "doorkeeper," the dog pounced briskly on him and tore him to pieces.This fable teaches us that sensible men, when their enemies attack them,divert them to someone better able to defend them than they are themselves. FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C.Two obstacles stood in his path. The first was the independent Swiss cantonsto Burgundy's east. Charles would have to incorporate this territory, by force,before moving into southern Germany. The Swiss were fierce warriors whowould not take kindly to any invasion. But in the end they could hardly matchthe size and power of the duke's army. The second obstacle was King Louis XIof France, Charles's cousin and archrival since childhood. France then was still afeudal state, composed of several duchies like Burgundy, whose dukes owedallegiance to the king. But these duchies were in fact independent powers andcould form their own league if the king dared provoke them. Burgundy was themost powerful duchy of them all, and everyone knew Louis dreamed ofswallowing it up and making France a united power.Charles, however, felt confident that he could best his older cousin in bothdiplomacy and warfare. After all, Louis was weak, even a little soft in the head.How else to explain his strange infatuation with the Swiss cantons? Almost fromthe beginning of his reign, Louis had courted them assiduously, treating themalmost like equals to France. There were many more powerful states he couldhave allied himself with to increase France's power, but he seemed obsessed withthe Swiss. Perhaps he felt an affinity to their simple lifestyle; for a king, hehimself had rather peasant tastes.