his armyat this newly captured point, he was master of the "central position"--that isto say, he had successfully interposed his concentrated army between theforces of his enemies who, ideally, would have staggered back under theimpact of the surprise blow in such a way as to increase the distance betweentheir respective armies. This would inevitably mean that the foe would haveto operate on "exterior lines" (i.e., have greater distances to march from oneflank to the other) while the better-positioned French would have a shorterdistance to travel to reach either enemy.THE CAMPAIGNS OF NAPOLEON, DAVID G. CHANDLER, 1966THE CENTRAL POSITIONOne day in early August of 490 B.C., the citizens of Athens received word that amassive Persian fleet had just landed some twenty-four miles to the north, alongthe coastal plains of Marathon. A mood of doom quickly spread. Every Athenianknew Persia's intentions--to capture their city; destroy its young democracy andrestore a former tyrant, Hippias, to the throne; and sell many of its citizens intoslavery. Some eight years earlier, Athens had sent ships to support the Greekcities of Asia Minor in a rebellion against King Darius, ruler of the PersianEmpire. The Athenians had sailed home after a few battles--they soon saw thatthis business was hopeless--but they had participated in burning down the city ofSardis, an unforgivable outrage, and Darius wanted revenge.The Athenians' predicament seemed desperate. The Persian army wasenormous, some 80,000 men strong, transported by hundreds of ships; it hadexcellent cavalry and the best archers in the world. The Athenians, meanwhile,had only infantry, some 10,000 strong. They had sent a runner to Sparta urgentlyrequesting reinforcements, but the Spartans were celebrating their moon festivaland it was taboo to fight during such a time. They would send troops as soon asthey could, within a week--but that would probably be too late. Meanwhile agroup of Persian sympathizers within Athens--mostly from wealthy families--despised the democracy, looked forward to Hippias's return, and were doing theirbest to sow dissension and betray the city from within. Not only would theAthenians have to fight the Persians alone, but they were divided into factions among themselves.The leaders of democratic Athens gathered to discuss the alternatives, all ofwhich seemed bad. The majority argued for concentrating the Athenian forcesoutside the city in a defensive cordon. There they could wait to fight the Persianson terrain they knew well. The Persian army, however, was large enough tosurround the city by both land and sea, choking it off with a blockade. So oneleader, Miltiades, made a very different proposal: to march the entire Athenianarmy immediately toward Marathon, to a place where the road to Athens passedthrough a narrow pass along the coast. That would leave Athens itselfunprotected; in trying to block the Persian advance on land, it would open itselfto an attack by sea. But Miltiades argued that occupying the pass was the onlyway to avoid being surrounded. He had fought the Persians in Asia Minor andwas the Athenians' most experienced soldier. The leaders voted for his plan.And so a few days later, the 10,000 Athenian infantrymen began