he refused the income from hiswritings, clearly practicing what he preached. The more the church attacked him,the more popular Luther became. To make a martyr of him now could spark arevolution.Nevertheless, in 1521, Leo ordered Luther to appear in the town of Wormsbefore the Imperial Diet, a gathering of German princes, nobles, and clergyorganized by the newly elected Holy Roman Emperor, Charles V. Leo hoped toget the Germans to do his dirty work, and Charles was amenable: a politicalcreature, worried by the antiauthoritarian sentiments that Luther had sparked, hewanted the dispute over. At the Diet he demanded that the priest recant histeachings. But Luther, as usual, refused, and in dramatic fashion, uttering thememorable line "Here I stand. I cannot do otherwise. God help me." Theemperor had no choice; he condemned Luther as a heretic and ordered him toreturn to Wittenberg to await his fate. On the way home, however, Luther waskidnapped and taken to Warburg Castle. The kidnapping had actually beenplanned and executed by his many supporters among the aristocracy; he wassafe. Living in the castle under an assumed name, he was able to ride out thestorm.Leo died that year, and within months of his death, Luther's ideas and thereforms that he had advocated had spread throughout Germany like wildfire. By1526 a Protestant party was officially recognized in different parts of Europe.This was the birth of the Reformation, and with it the vast worldly power of theCatholic Church, at least as Leo had inherited it, was irrevocably broken. Thatobscure, pedantic Wittenberg priest had somehow won the war.InterpretationLuther's original intention in his Ninety-five Theses was to discuss a point oftheology: the relationship, or lack of it, between God's forgiveness and papalindulgences. But when he read Prieras's response to his argument, somethingchanged in him. The pope and his men had failed to find justification forindulgences in the Bible. There was much more they could not justify as well,such as the pope's unlimited power to excommunicate. Luther came to believethat the church needed drastic reform.Reformation, however, would require political power. If Luther simply railed at the church's wickedness from the pulpit or among his fellow priests, he wouldget nowhere. The pope and his men had attacked him personally, questioning hismotives; now Luther in turn would go on the offensive, fighting fire with fire.Luther's strategy was to make the war public, transforming his moral causeinto a political one. He did this by exploiting the previous century's advances inprinting technology: his tracts, written in vigorous, angry language that appealedto the masses, were widely disseminated. He chose points of attack that wouldparticularly outrage the German people: the pope's decadent lifestyle, fundedthrough the sale of indulgences; the use of church power to meddle in Germanpolitics; on and on. Perhaps most devastating of all, Luther exposed the church'shypocrisies. Through these various tactics, he was able to spark and stoke amoral anger that spread like fire, forever tainting the public's vision not just ofthe pope but of the church itself.Luther knew that Leo would respond to him not with