joy or life. Second, it is best to have wideknowledge of your field and other fields, giving your brain more possibleassociations and connections. Third, to keep this process alive, you must neversettle into complacency, as if your initial vision represents the endpoint. Youmust cultivate profound dissatisfaction with your work and the need toconstantly improve your ideas, along with a sense of uncertainty—you are notexactly sure where to go next, and this uncertainty drives the creative urge andkeeps it fresh. Any kind of resistance or obstacle that crosses your path shouldbe seen as yet another chance to improve your work.Finally, you must come to embrace slowness as a virtue in itself. When itcomes to creative endeavors, time is always relative. Whether your project takesmonths or years to complete, you will always experience a sense of impatience months or years to complete, you will always experience a sense of impatienceand a desire to get to the end. The single greatest action you can take foracquiring creative power is to reverse this natural impatience. You take pleasurein the laborious research process; you enjoy the slow cooking of the idea, theorganic growth that naturally takes shape over time. You do not unnaturallydraw out the process, which will create its own problems (we all needdeadlines), but the longer you can allow the project to absorb your mentalenergies, the richer it will become. Imagine yourself years in the future lookingback at the work you have done. From that future vantage point, the extramonths and years you devoted to the process will not seem painful or laboriousat all. It is an illusion of the present that will vanish. Time is your greatest ally.5. The Open FieldMartha Graham’s father, Dr. George Graham, was one of the few pioneeringdoctors in the 1890s to specialize in the treatment of mental illness. (For more onMartha Graham, see pages 30–31 and 66–67.) Around the family he did not talkmuch about his work, but one subject he would discuss openly with Marthacompletely fascinated her. In working with his patients, Dr. Graham haddeveloped the ability to judge much about their states of mind from their bodylanguage. He could read their level of anxiety in how they walked or movedtheir arms or fixed their eyes on something. “The body does not lie,” he wouldoften tell her.In high school in Santa Barbara, California, Martha developed an interest intheater. But one evening in 1911, Dr. Graham took his seventeen-year-olddaughter to Los Angeles to see a performance of the famous dancer Ruth St.Denis, and from then on all she could think about was becoming a dancer.Influenced by her father, she was intrigued by the ability to express emotionswithout any words, strictly through the movement of the body. As soon as St.Denis opened up her own dance school (along with her partner, Ted Shawn) in1916, Martha enrolled as one of its first pupils. Much of the choreography was akind of free-form ballet, with an emphasis on making everything seem easy andnatural. There was a lot of posing and moving