to be performed. Share the light of your intelligence, when you have any , and ask for it when you have it not, the ﬁrst cautiously , the last anxiously . Give no more than a hint: this ﬁnesse is especially needful when it touches the interest of him whose attention you awaken. Y ou should give but a taste at ﬁrst, and then pass on to more when that is not suﬃcient. If he thinks of No, go in search of Y es. Therein lies the cleverness, for most things are not obtained simply because they are not attempted. lxix Do not give way to every common Impulse. He is a great man who never allows himself to be inﬂuenced by the impressions of others. Self-reﬂection is the school of wisdom. To know one's disposition and to allow for it, even going to the other extreme so as to ﬁnd the juste milieu between nature and art. Self-knowledge is the beginning of self-improvement. There be some whose humours are so monstrous that they are always under the inﬂuence of one or other of them, and put them in place of their real inclinations. They are torn asunder by such disharmony and get involved in contradictory obligations. Such excesses not only destroy ﬁrmness of will; all power of judgment gets lost, desire and knowledge pulling in opposite directions. lxx Know how to Refuse. One ought not to give way in everything nor to everybody . To know how to refuse is therefore as important as to know how to consent. This is especially the case with men of position. All depends on the how . Some men's No is thought more of than the Y es of others: for a gilded No is more satisfactory than a dry Y es. There are some who always have No on their lips, whereby they make everything distasteful. No always comes ﬁrst with them, and when sometimes they give way after all, it does them no good on account of the unpleasing herald. Y our refusal need not be point-blank: let the disappointment come by degrees. Nor let the refusal be ﬁnal; that would be to destroy dependence; let some spice of hope remain to soften the rejection. Let politeness compensate and ﬁne words supply the place of deeds. Y es and No are soon said, but give much to think over. lxxi Do not V acillate. Let not your actions be abnormal either from disposition or aﬀectation. An able man is always the same in his best qualities; he gets the credit of trustworthiness. If he changes, he does so for good reason or good consideration. In matters of conduct change is hateful. There are some who are diﬀerent every day; their intelligence varies, still more their will, and with this their fortune. Y esterday's white is to-day's black: to-day's No was yesterday's Y es. They always give the lie to their own credit and destroy their credit with others. lxxii Be