the Romans on their own soil, he never intended to takeRome itself; that would have been impossible. Its walls were high, its peoplefierce and united in their hatred of him, and his forces were small. Rather,Hannibal's goal was to wreak havoc on the Italian peninsula and to undermineRome's alliances with neighboring city-states. Weakened at home, Rome wouldhave to leave Carthage alone and put a stop to its imperial expansion.To cross the sea without heaven's knowledge, one had to move openly overthe sea but act as if one did not intend to cross it. Each military maneuver hastwo aspects: the superficial move and the underlying purpose. By concealingboth, one can take the enemy completely by surprise.... [If] it is highlyunlikely that the enemy can be kept ignorant of one's actions, one cansometimes play tricks right under its nose.THE WILES OF WAR: 36 MILITARY STRATEGIES FROM ANCIENTCHINA, TRANSLATED BY SUN HAICHEN, 1991To sow this kind of chaos with the tiny army he had been able to bring overthe Alps, Hannibal had to make his every action unexpected. A psychologistbefore his time, he understood that an enemy that is caught by surprise loses itsdiscipline and sense of security. (When chaos strikes those who are particularly rigid and orderly to begin with, such as the people and armies of Rome, it hasdouble the destructive power.) And surprise can never be mechanical, repetitive,or routine; that would be a contradiction in terms. Surprise takes constantadaptation, creativity, and a mischievous pleasure in playing the trickster.So Hannibal always took the route that Rome least expected him to take--theroad through the Alps, for example, considered impassable to an army andtherefore unguarded. Eventually, inevitably, the Romans caught on and began toexpect him to take the least obvious route; at that point it was the obvious thatwas unexpected, as at Allifae. In battle, Hannibal would fix the enemy's attentionon a frontal assault--the ordinary, usual way armies fought at the time--thenunleash the extraordinary in the form of elephants or a reserve force hidden tothe enemy's rear. In his raids in the Roman countryside, he deliberately protectedFabius's property, creating the impression that the two men were in collusion andultimately forcing the embarrassed leader to take action--an unorthodox use ofpolitics and extramilitary means in war. At Allifae, Hannibal had bundles ofkindling tied to the horns of oxen, then lit them and sent the terrified, bellowinganimals up the slopes to the pass at night--creating an indecipherable image tothe Roman sentries, literally in the dark, and a terrifying one.At Cannae, where the Romans were by this time expecting the unorthodox,Hannibal disguised his stratagem in broad daylight, lining up his army like anyother army of the period. The Roman force was already impelled by the violenceof the moment and the desire for revenge; he let them make quick progressthrough his deliberately weak center, where they became crowded together. Thenthe swift-moving outer wings of his line closed in and choked them. On and onhe went, each one of Hannibal's ingeniously unorthodox maneuvers floweringout of the other in a