Union, and trying to modernize this backward nation. All wasgoing according to plan until the early to mid 1970s, when Islamicfundamentalism began to become a political force across Afghanistan. TheRussians saw two dangers: first, that the fundamentalists would come to powerand, seeing communism as godless and loathsome, would cut off ties with theSoviets; and second, that fundamentalist unrest would spill over fromAfghanistan into the southern Soviet Union, which had a large Islamicpopulation.In 1978, to prevent such a nightmare scenario, Brezhnev secretly supported acoup that brought the Afghan Communist Party to power. But the AfghanCommunists were hopelessly factionalized, and only after a long power struggledid a leader emerge: Hafizullah Amin, whom the Soviets distrusted. On top ofthat, the Communists were not popular in Afghanistan, and Amin resorted to themost brutal means to maintain his party's power. This only fed thefundamentalist cause. All around the country, insurgents--the mujahideen--beganto rebel, and thousands of Afghan soldiers defected from the army to them.By December 1979 the Communist government in Afghanistan was on theverge of collapse. In Russia the senior members of the Politburo met to discussthe crisis. To lose Afghanistan would be a devastating blow and a source ofinstability after so much progress had been made. They blamed Amin for theirproblems; he had to go. Ustinov proposed a plan: Repeating what the Sovietshad done in quelling rebellions in Eastern Europe, he advocated a lightningstrike by a relatively small Soviet force that would secure Kabul and the SalangHighway. Amin would then be ousted, and a Communist named Babrak Karmalwould take his place. The Soviet army would assume a low profile, and theAfghan army would be beefed up to take over from it. During the course of someten years, Afghanistan would be modernized and would slowly become a stablemember of the Soviet Bloc. Blessed with peace and prosperity, the Afghanpeople would see the great benefits of socialism and embrace it.A few days after the meeting, Ustinov presented his plan to the army's chiefof staff, Nikolai Orgakov. Told that the invading army would not exceed 75,000men, Orgakov was shocked: that force, he said, was far too small to secure thelarge, mountainous expanses of Afghanistan, a very different world from EasternEurope. Ustinov countered that a giant invading force would generate bad publicity for the Soviets in the Third World and would give the insurgents a richtarget. Orgakov responded that the fractious Afghans had a tradition of suddenlyuniting to throw out an invader--and that they were fierce fighters. Calling theplan reckless, he said it would be better to attempt a political solution to theproblem. His warnings were ignored.The plan was approved by the Politburo and on December 24 was put inmotion. Some Red Army forces flew into Kabul while others marched down theSalang Highway. Amin was quietly taken away and killed while Karmal wasshuffled into power. Condemnation poured in from all over the world, but theSoviets figured that would eventually die down--it usually did.In February 1980, Andropov met with Karmal and instructed him on theimportance of winning the support of