the past. Your task is twofold: to fight thebattle in such a way that they cannot bring their strength or strategy into play andto create such a level of frustration that they make mistakes in the process. Youdo not give them enough time to do anything; you play to their emotionalweaknesses, making them as irritable as possible; you bait them into deadlytraps. It is less your action than their missteps that give you control. Assume passive control. The ultimate form of domination is to make those onthe other side think they are the ones in control. Believing they are in command,they are less likely to resist you or become defensive. You create this impressionby moving with the energy of the other side, giving ground but slowly and subtlydiverting them in the direction you desire. It is often the best way to control theoverly aggressive and the passive-aggressive.One who excels at warfare compels men and is not compelled by others. --Sun-tzu (fourth century B.C.)HISTORICAL EXAMPLES1. By the end of 1940, British forces in the Middle East had been able to securetheir position in Egypt and take back a good part of Libya that the Italians (anally of Germany) had seized early in World War II. Having captured theimportant port town of Benghazi, the British were poised to advance fartherwest, all the way to Tripoli, allowing them to push the Italians out of the countryfor good. Then, unexpectedly, a halt was called in their advance. GeneralArchibald Wavell, commander in chief of British forces in the Middle East, waswaging battle on too many fronts. Since the Italians had proved themselves to berather inept in desert warfare, the British felt they could afford to create adefensive line in Libya, build up their forces in Egypt, and launch a majoroffensive against the Italians by April of the following year.News that a German armored brigade under the leadership of General ErwinRommel had arrived in Tripoli in February 1941 did not alter the British plans.Rommel had been a superb commander during the blitzkrieg in France theprevious year. But here he was under Italian command, dependent on theincompetent Italians for supplies, and his force was too small to make the Britishnervous. In addition, intelligence reports revealed that Hitler had sent him therewith orders to do no more than block the British from advancing to Tripoli.Then, without warning, at the end of March 1941, Rommel's tanks swepteastward. Rommel had broken up his small force into columns, and he hurledthem in so many directions against the British defensive line that it was hard tofathom his intentions. These mechanized columns moved with incredible speed;advancing at night with lights dimmed, time and again they caught their enemyby surprise, suddenly appearing to their flank or rear. As their line was breachedin multiple places, the British were compelled to retreat farther and farther east.To Wavell, who was following these events from Cairo, this was downrightshocking and humiliating: Rommel was causing chaos with a disproportionatelysmall number of tanks and severe supply limitations. Within a few