had gone through. It reminded him of somany other inventions in history, such as microcomputers. The microprocessorsthat made the microcomputer possible had originally been developed to runtraffic lights and vending machines. They had never been intended to powercomputers. The first entrepreneurs to attempt this were laughed at; the computersthey had created looked hardly worthy of the name—they were so small andcould do so little. But they caught on with just enough people for whom theysaved time, and slowly, the idea took off. The same story had occurred withtransistors, which in the 1930s and ’40s were developed and used in electronicsfor the military. It was not until the early 1950s that several individuals had theidea of applying this technology to transistor radios for the public, soon hittingupon what would become the most popular electronic device in history. What was interesting in all of these cases was the peculiar process that led tothese inventions: generally, the inventors had a chance encounter with theavailable technology; then the idea would come to them that this technologycould be used for other purposes; and finally they would try out differentprototypes until the right one fell into place. What allows for this process is thewillingness of the inventor to look at everyday things in a different light and toimagine new uses for them. For people who are stuck in rigid ways of seeing, thefamiliarity of an old application hypnotizes them into not seeing its otherpossibilities. What it all really comes down to is the possession of a flexible,adaptable mind—something that is often enough to separate a successfulinventor or entrepreneur from the rest of the crowd.After cashing in on Viaweb, Graham hit upon the idea of writing essays forthe Internet—his rather peculiar form of blogging. These essays made him acelebrity among young hackers and programmers everywhere. In 2005 he wasinvited by undergraduates in the computer science department at Harvard to givea talk. Instead of boring them and himself by analyzing various programminglanguages, he decided to discuss the idea of technology startups themselves—why some work, why some fail. The talk was so successful, and Graham’s ideasso illuminating, that the students began to besiege him with questions about theirown startup ideas. As he listened, he could sense that some of their conceptswere not far off the mark, but that they badly needed shaping and guidance.Graham had always intended to try his hand at investing in other people’sideas. He had been the beneficiary of an angel investor in his project, and it wasonly right to return the favor by helping others. The problem was where to begin.Most angel investors had some related experience before they began investing,and they tended to start out on a small scale to get their feet wet. Graham had nosuch business experience. Based on this weakness, he hit upon an idea that atfirst glance seemed ridiculous—he would synchronously invest $15,000 in tenstartups all at once. He would find these ten prospects by advertising his offerand choosing the best among the applicants. Over the course of a few