their skill. But when others have recognised their perverse humour all revolt against them and learn to overturn their chimerical plans, and they succeed in nothing but only heap up a mass of troubles, since everything serves to increase their disappointment. They have a head turned and a heart spoilt. Nothing can be done with such monsters except to ﬂee from them, even to the Antipodes, where the savagery is easier to bear than their loathsome nature. ccxix Do not pass for a Hypocrite, though such men are indispensable nowadays. Be considered rather prudent than astute. Sincerity in behaviour pleases all, though not all can show it in their own aﬀairs. Sincerity should not degenerate into simplicity nor sagacity into cunning. Be rather respected as wise than feared as sly . The open-hearted are loved but deceived. The great art consists in disclosing what is thought to be deceit. In the golden age simplicity ﬂourished, in these days of iron cunning. 'The reputation of being a man who knows what he has to do is honourable and inspires conﬁdence, but to be considered a hypocrite is deceptive and arouses mistrust. ccxx If you cannot clothe Y ourself in Lionskin use F oxpelt. To follow the times is to lead them. He that gets what he wants never loses his reputation. Cleverness when force will not do. One way or another, the king's highway of valour or the bypath of cunning. Skill has eﬀected more than force, and astuteness has conquered courage more often than the other way . When you cannot get a thing then is the time to despise it. ccxxi Do not seize Occasions to embarrass Y ourself or Others. There are some men stumbling-blocks of good manners either for themselves or for others: they are always on the point of some stupidity . Y ou meet with them easily and part from them uneasily . A hundred annoyances a day is nothing to them. Their humour always strokes the wrong way since they contradict all and every . They put on the judgment cap wrong side foremost and thus condemn all. Y et the greatest test of others' patience and prudence are just those who do no good and speak ill of all. There are many monsters in the wide realm of Indecorum. ccxxii Reserve is proof of Prudence. The tongue is a wild beast; once let loose it is diﬃcult to chain. It is the pulse of the soul by which wise men judge of its health: by this pulse a careful observer feels every movement of the heart. The worst is that he who should be most reserved is the least. The sage saves himself from worries and embarrassments, and shows his mastery over himself. He goes his way carefully , a Janus for impartiality , an Argus for watchfulness. T ruly Momus had better placed the eyes in the hand than the window in the breast. ccxxiii Be not Eccentric, neither from aﬀectation nor