commerce. Just threeyears later they sold it to Yahoo! for $45 million.In the years to come Graham would continue on the path set in his twenties,moving to where his interests and skills converged, to wherever he could seepossibilities. In 2005 he gave a talk at Harvard about his experiences withViaweb. The students, excited by his advice, pleaded with him to start up somekind of consulting firm. Intrigued by the idea, he created Y Combinator, anapprenticeship system for young entrepreneurs in technology, with his companytaking a stake in each successful startup. Over the years he would refine thesystem, learning as he went along. In the end, Y Combinator represented hisultimate hack—something he came upon by accident and improved through hisown process of trial and error. The company is now valued at close to $500million. Each age tends to create a model of apprenticeship that is suited to the system ofproduction that prevails at the time. In the Middle Ages, during the birth ofmodern capitalism and the need for quality control, the first apprenticeshipsystem appeared, with its rigidly defined terms. With the advent of the IndustrialRevolution, this model of apprenticeship became largely outmoded, but the ideabehind it lived on in the form of self-apprenticeship—developing yourself fromwithin a particular field, as Darwin did in biology. This suited the growingindividualistic spirit of the time. We are now in the computer age, withcomputers dominating nearly all aspects of commercial life. Although there aremany ways in which this could influence the concept of apprenticeship, it is thehacker approach to programming that may offer the most promising model forthis new age.The model goes like this: You want to learn as many skills as possible,following the direction that circumstances lead you to, but only if they arerelated to your deepest interests. Like a hacker, you value the process of self-discovery and making things that are of the highest quality. You avoid the trapof following one set career path. You are not sure where this will all lead, but of following one set career path. You are not sure where this will all lead, butyou are taking full advantage of the openness of information, all of theknowledge about skills now at our disposal. You see what kind of work suits youand what you want to avoid at all cost. You move by trial and error. This is howyou pass your twenties. You are the programmer of this wide-rangingapprenticeship, within the loose constraints of your personal interests.You are not wandering about because you are afraid of commitment, butbecause you are expanding your skill base and your possibilities. At a certainpoint, when you are ready to settle on something, ideas and opportunities willinevitably present themselves to you. When that happens, all of the skills youhave accumulated will prove invaluable. You will be the Master at combiningthem in ways that are unique and suited to your individuality. You may settle onthis one place or idea for several years, accumulating in the process even moreskills, then move in a slightly different direction when