against animperialist power. Once this view was diffused in the media and accepted bymany in the French and American publics, the insurgents were able to courtinternational support, which in turn served to isolate France and the UnitedStates in the world community. Appealing directly to groups within these countries that were latently or overtly sympathetic to or at least ambivalent abouttheir cause, they were able to sap support for the war from within. At the sametime, they cleverly disguised the many nasty maneuvers to which theythemselves resorted to fight their guerrilla wars. As a result, in the eyes of theworld, they dominated the moral battlefield, enormously inhibiting France's andAmerica's freedom of action. Stepping gingerly through a political and moralminefield, these powers could not fight their wars in a winnable manner.Beaufre calls the strategic use of morality an "exterior maneuver," for it liesoutside the territory being fought over and outside battlefield strategy. It takesplace in its own space--its own moral terrain. For Beaufre both France and theUnited States made the mistake of ceding the high ground to the enemy. Becauseboth countries had rich democratic traditions and saw their wars as justified, theyassumed that others would perceive these struggles the same way. They saw noneed to fight for the moral terrain--and that was a fatal mistake. Nations todaymust play the public game, deflecting their enemies' attempts to portray them asevil. Without appearing to whine about what the other side is doing, they mustalso work to expose their enemies' hypocrisies, taking the war to the moral courtthemselves--fighting on apparently moral terms. Cede the moral terrain to theother side and you limit your freedom of action: now anything you might have todo that is manipulative yet necessary will feed the unjust image the enemy haspublicized, and you will hesitate to take such action.This has great relevance to all forms of conflict. When your enemies try topresent themselves as more justified than you are, and therefore more moral, youmust see this move for what it most often is: not a reflection of morality, of rightand wrong, but a clever strategy, an exterior maneuver. You can recognize anexterior maneuver in a number of ways. First, the moral attack often comes outof left field, having nothing to do with what you imagine the conflict is about.Something you have done in a completely different arena is dredged up as a wayto drain your support or inject you with guilt. Second, the attack is often adhominem; rational argument is met with the emotional and personal. Yourcharacter, rather than the issue you are fighting over, becomes the ground of thedebate. Your motives are questioned and given the darkest turn.Humanity as such cannot wage war because it has no enemy, at least not onthis planet. The concept of humanity excludes the concept of the enemy,because the enemy does not cease to be a human being--and hence there is nospecific differentiation in that concept. That wars are waged in the name ofhumanity is not a contradiction of this simple truth; quite the contrary,