disguises, in situations farfrom the chessboard. It may help to seek the equivalent of the center of theboard in any situation, or to see that the role of the center has migrated to theflanks, or to realize that there is no board and no singular topology.... CLAUSEWITZ ON STRATEGY, TIHA VON GHYZY, BOLKO VONOETINGER, CHRISTOPHER BASSFORD, EDS., 2001These editorials were so well written and so audacious in their criticisms thatmany began to take a closer look at the Stamp Act, and they did not like whatthey saw. Adams had never previously gone beyond writing articles, but nowthat he had lit this fire of discontent, he saw the urgency in stoking it further withaction. For many years he had fraternized with working-class people consideredriffraff by polite society--dockworkers and the like; now he banded these meninto an organization called the Sons of Liberty. The group marched through thestreets of Boston shouting a slogan Adams had coined: "Liberty, property, and nostamps!" They burned effigies of political figures who had promoted the StampAct. They distributed pamphlets containing Adams's arguments against the act.They also worked to intimidate the future distributors of the stamps, even goingso far as to destroy one of their offices. The more dramatic the action, the morepublicity Adams would earn, publicity into which he could insert argumentsagainst the act.Having gained momentum, the relentless Adams would not stop. Heorganized a statewide work stoppage for the day the act was to become law:shops would close, the courts would be empty. Since no business would beconducted in Massachusetts, no stamps would be purchased. The boycott wasmassively successful.Adams's articles, demonstrations, and boycott made a splash in England, andthere were members of Parliament who sympathized with the colonists andspoke out against the Stamp Act. Finally King George III had had enough, and inApril 1766 the act was repealed. Americans rejoiced at their first show of power.The British were smarting from their defeat, however, and the following yearthey sneaked in another series of indirect taxes known as the Townshend System.Clearly they had underestimated their enemy: Adams went to war. As he hadwith the Stamp Act, he wrote countless articles on the nature of the taxes theEnglish had tried to disguise, once again stirring up anger. He also organizedfurther demonstrations by the Sons of Liberty, now more menacing and violentthan ever--in fact, the English were forced to send troops to Boston to keep thepeace. This had been Adams's goal all along; he had ratcheted up the tension.Belligerent encounters between the Sons of Liberty and the English troops putthe soldiers on edge, and finally a nervous group of them fired into a crowd,killing several Bostonians. Adams called this the Boston Massacre and spreadfiery word of it throughout the colonies.With the people of Boston now bubbling with anger, Adams organized another boycott: no citizen of Massachusetts, not even a prostitute, would sellanything to British soldiers. No one would rent them lodgings. They wereshunned in the streets and taverns; even eye contact was avoided. All of this hada demoralizing effect on the