mail. Incertain cities no one could move from house to house without a permit, whichspread disaffection among the citizenry and made it easier for the Ismailis torecruit converts. Many found it hard to sleep at night or to trust their closestfriends. All kinds of wild rumors were spread by those who had grown deliriouswith paranoia. Bitter divisions sprang up within the hierarchy, as some arguedfor a hard-line approach to Hasan, while others preached accommodation as theonly answer.Meanwhile, as the empire struggled to somehow repress the Ismailis, thekillings went on--but they were highly sporadic. Months would pass withoutone, and then suddenly there would be two within a week. There was no realrhyme or reason to when it happened or which high administrator was singledout. Officials would talk endlessly about a pattern, analyzing every Ismailimove. Without their realizing it, this little sect had come to dominate theirthoughts.In 1120, Sanjar, the new sultan, decided to take action, planning a militarycampaign to capture the Ismaili castles with overwhelming force and turn theregion around them into an armed camp. He took extra precautions to preventany attempt on his life, changing his sleeping arrangements and allowing onlythose he knew well to approach him. By making himself personally secure, hebelieved he could stay free of the panic around him.As preparations for the war got under way, Hasan-i-Sabah sent ambassadorafter ambassador to Sanjar offering to negotiate an end to the killings. They wereall turned away. The tables seemed to have turned: now it was the Ismailis whowere frightened.Shortly before the campaign was to be launched, the sultan awoke onemorning to find a dagger thrust neatly in the ground a few feet away from theposition where his breast lay on the bed. How did it get there? What did it mean?The more he thought about it, the more he began to literally tremble with fear--it was clearly a message. He told no one about this, for whom could he trust? Evenhis wives were suspect. By the end of the day, he was an emotional wreck. Thatevening he received a message from Hasan himself: "Did I not wish the sultanwell, that dagger which was struck into the hard ground would have been plantedin his soft breast."On their voyage Pisander and the others abolished the democracies in the[Greek] cities, as had been decided. From some places they also took hoplitesto add to their forces, and so came to Athens. Here they found that most of thework had already been done by members of their [antidemocratic] party.Some of the younger men had formed a group among themselves and hadmurdered without being detected a certain Androcles, who was one of thechief leaders of the [democratic] party.... There were also some other peoplewhom they regarded as undesirable and did away with secretly.......[Athenians] were afraid when they saw their numbers, and no one now daredto speak in opposition to them. If anyone did venture to do so, someappropriate method was soon found for having him killed, and no one tried toinvestigate such crimes or take