now had a completelydifferent feeling than in the years before. The connection with his fighters wasabsolute. His vision of the whole picture—the spirit of the opponent, the way todominate the ring space within each round, the overall strategy to win the fight—was now deeply imprinted into the footwork, punching, and thinking of hisown fighter. He could almost feel himself in the ring exchanging punches, butnow he had the ultimate satisfaction of controlling both the mind of his ownfighter and that of the opponent’s. He would watch with mounting excitement ashis fighters would slowly wear down their opponents, exploiting their habits andgetting inside their heads just as he had taught them to.His winning percentage started to climb to a level that was unprecedented inthe sport. His success extended beyond the main fighter in his stable, MannyPacquiao, to include nearly all of his boxers. Since 2003 he has been namedBoxing Trainer of the Year five times, no other previous trainer having receivedthe award more than twice. It seems that in modern boxing he is now in a classall by himself. If we look closely at the career path of Freddie Roach, we can see a transparentexample of the development of mastery. His father, a former New Englandfeatherweight champion himself, had pushed all of his sons into the sport at avery early age. Freddie Roach himself had begun serious training as a boxer atthe age of six, and this continued all the way to the age of eighteen, when heturned professional. Those twelve years added up to an extremely deep level ofpractice and immersion in the sport. For the next eight years of his life, until heretired from the sport, he fought fifty-three bouts, an intense fighting schedule.As someone who enjoyed practicing and training, the number of hours he spentin the gym as a professional boxer was much higher than that of other fighters.After retirement he stayed around the sport, working as an apprentice trainer forEddie Futch. By the time he began his own career as a trainer, he hadaccumulated so many overall hours of work in the sport that he already sawboxing from a perspective that was much wider and deeper than that of othertrainers. And so when he felt that there was an even higher level to aim for, thisintuition was based on the depth of all those years of practical experience.Inspired by this feeling, he was able to analyze his own work up to that point andsee its limitations.Roach knew from his own career that so much of boxing is mental. A fighterwho enters the ring with a clear sense of purpose and strategy, and with theconfidence that comes from complete preparation, has a much better chance ofprevailing. It was one thing to imagine giving his fighters such an advantage, butit was quite another to bring it to pass. Before a fight there are so manydistractions, and during a match it is so easy to simply react emotionally to thepunches and lose any sense of strategy. To overcome these problems,