for mostof us, as conscious strategy passive-aggressive behavior offers an insidiouslypowerful way of manipulating people and waging personal war. Like Metternich,you must operate on two fronts. You are outwardly agreeable, apparentlybending to people's ideas, energy, and will, changing shape like Proteus himself.Remember: people are willful and perverse. Opposing them directly or trying tochange their ideas will often have the contrary effect. A passive, compliant front,on the other hand, gives them nothing to fight against or resist. Going along withtheir energy gives you the power to divert it in the direction you want, as if youwere channeling a river rather than trying to dam it. Meanwhile the aggressivepart of your strategy takes the form of infecting people with subtle changes intheir ideas and with an energy that will make them act on your behalf. Theirinability to get what you are doing in focus gives you room to work behind thescenes, checking their progress, isolating them from other people, luring theminto dangerous moves that make them dependent on your support. They thinkyou are their ally. Behind a pleasant, compliant, even weak front, you are pullingthe strings.This was the real achievement of Metternich's policy, that it had killedRussian liberalism and achieved a measure of domination over Austria's mostdangerous rival in the guise of submitting to him.--Henry Kissinger, A World Restored (1957)In this postscript on the solution of Caesar's problem, it is not our intention totrace Octavian's rise to power from the time he arrived in Rome to claim his inheritance until, in 31 B.C., with the aid of Vipsanius Agrippa, he defeatedAntony and Cleopatra at Actium and became master of the Roman world.Instead, it is to describe in brief how as such he solved Caesar's problem andestablished a peace which was to last for over 200 years. When hecontemplated the empire he had won and its heterogeneous localgovernments and peoples, he realized that it was far too large and complex tobe ruled by the council of a city state; that instead it demanded some form ofone-man rule, and that his problem was how to disguise it. From the outset hedecided not to tamper with the constitution of the Republic, or contemplatemonarchy....... Firstly, in 28 B.C. he declined all honours calculated to remindthe Romans of the kingly power; adopted the title of princeps ("first citizen"),and called his system the Principate. Secondly, he accepted all the oldconventions--consuls, tribunes, magistrates, elections, etc. Thirdly, instead ofignoring the Senate and insulting its members as Caesar had done, he wentout of his way to consult it and placate them. Lastly, on January 13, 27 B.C.,at a session of the Senate, he renounced all his extraordinary powers andplaced them at the disposal of the Senate and the people. And when thesenators begged him to resume them and not to abandon the Commonwealthhe had saved, he yielded to their request and consented to assumeproconsular authority over an enlarged province, which included Spain,Gaul, Syria, Cilicia, and Cyprus, while the Senate was left with the remainingprovinces. Thus in semblance the sovereignty of the