solving a series oftechnical issues and creating a kind of moving computer that could mimic somebasic thought patterns.Matsuoka had a much different approach. She wanted to create something aslifelike and anatomically correct as possible. That was the real future of robotics,and to reach such a goal meant engaging in questions that were on a much higherlevel—what makes anything alive and organically complex? To her, it was asimportant to study evolution, human physiology, and neuroscience as it was toimmerse oneself in engineering. Perhaps it would complicate her career path, butshe would follow her own inclinations and see where they led.In going about her design, Matsuoka made a key decision: she would beginby building a model of a robotic hand that would replicate the human hand asclosely as possible. In attempting such an enormous task, she would be forced totruly understand how each part functioned. For instance, in trying to recreate allof the various bones of the hand, she came upon all kinds of seemingly irrelevantbumps and grooves. The bone at the knuckle of the index finger has a bump thatmakes it larger on one side. In studying this one detail, she discovered itsfunction—giving us the ability to grasp objects in the center of the hand withmore power. It seemed odd that such a bump would evolve expressly for thatpurpose. Probably it was some mutation that ended up becoming a part of ourevolution, as the hand became increasingly important in our development.Continuing in this line she worked on the palm of her robotic hand, whichshe had determined was in many ways the key to the design. For most engineers,robotic hands were designed for optimal power and maneuverability. Theywould build in all kinds of mechanical options, but to make it work they wouldhave to pack all of the motors and cables in the most convenient place, the palm,rendering it completely rigid. After designing hands like this, they would thenfob them off to software engineers to try to figure out to how bring backmaneuverability. Because of the built-in rigidity, however, the thumb wouldnever be able to touch the pinky, and engineers would inevitably end up with thesame highly limited robotic hand. same highly limited robotic hand.Matsuoka started from the other end. Her goal was to discover what makesthe hand dexterous, and it was clear that one critical requisite was to have aflexible, curved palm. Thinking on this higher level, it then became clear that themotors and cables had to be placed somewhere else. Instead of jamming thehand with motors everywhere so that everything could move, she determinedthat the most important maneuverable part of the hand was the thumb, the key toour grasping skills. That is where she would put more power.She continued on this path, uncovering more and more of the details thatwent into the marvelous mechanics of the human hand. As she worked in thispeculiar way, other engineers would scoff at her and her strange biologicalapproach. What a waste of time, they would tell her. In the end, however, whatshe called her anatomically