histheory would jeopardize his livelihood.As the court physician, first to James I and then to Charles I who ascendedthe throne in 1625, Harvey worked diligently to gain royal favor. He played thecourt diplomat, and avoided aligning himself with any faction or becominginvolved in any intrigues. He behaved humbly and with self-deprecation. Heconfided his discoveries to the king early on to gain his trust and support. In thecountry, there was a young man who had severely broken ribs on the left side ofhis chest, leaving a cavity through which one could see and touch the heart. Hebrought the young man to the king’s court and used him to demonstrate toCharles the nature of the heart’s contractions and expansions, and how the heartworked as a pump for the blood.Finally, in 1628 he published the results of his years of work, opening thebook with a very clever dedication to Charles I: “Most serene King! Theanimal’s heart is the basis of its life, its chief member, the sun of its microcosm;on the heart all its activity depends, from the heart all its liveliness and strengtharise. Equally is the King the basis of his kingdom, the sun of his microcosm, theheart of the state; from him all power arises and all grace stems.”The book naturally created a stir, particularly on the Continent, whereHarvey was less known. Opposition primarily came from older physicians whocould not reconcile themselves with a theory that so completely overturned theiridea of anatomy. To the numerous publications that came out to discredit hisideas, Harvey remained mostly silent. An occasional attack from eminentphysicians would cause him to write personal letters in which he very politelyand yet thoroughly refuted their ideas.As he had foreseen, with the strength of his position within the medicalprofession and the court, and with the great amount of evidence he hadaccumulated over the years, which was clearly outlined in his book, his theoryslowly gained acceptance. By the time of Harvey’s death in 1657, his work hadbecome an accepted part of medical doctrine and practice. As his friend ThomasHobbes would write: “[Harvey was] the only man I know, who, conqueringenvy, hath established a new doctrine in his life-time.” The common historical accounts of Semmelweis and Harvey reveal our tendencyto ignore the critical role of social intelligence in all fields, including thesciences. For instance, most versions of the Semmelweis story emphasize thetragic shortsightedness of men like Klein who pushed the noble-minded youngHungarian over the edge. With Harvey, they emphasize his theoretical brillianceas the singular cause of his success. But in both cases, social intelligence playeda key role. Semmelweis completely ignored its necessity; such considerationsannoyed him; all that mattered was the truth. But in his zeal, he unnecessarilyalienated Klein, who had faced other disagreements with students before butnever to such a degree. Through constant arguing, Semmelweis had pushedKlein to the point of having to fire him, and thus lost an important positionwithin the university from which he could spread his ideas. Consumed with hisbattle with Klein, he failed to express his theory in