his generals exclaimed in admiration. "We would never havethought of that." RECORDS OF THE HISTORIAN, SZUMA CHIEN, CIRCA 145 B.C.-CIRCA 86 B.C. Death ground is a psychological phenomenon that goes well beyond thebattlefield: it is any set of circumstances in which you feel enclosed and withoutoptions. There is very real pressure at your back, and you cannot retreat. Time isrunning out. Failure--a form of psychic death--is staring you in the face. Youmust act or suffer the consequences.Understand: we are creatures who are intimately tied to our environment--werespond viscerally to our circumstances and to the people around us. If oursituation is easy and relaxed, if people are friendly and warm, our natural tensionunwinds. We may even grow bored and tired; our environment is failing tochallenge us, although we may not realize it. But put yourself in a high-stakessituation--a psychological death ground--and the dynamic changes. Your bodyresponds to danger with a surge of energy; your mind focuses. Urgency is forcedon you; you are compelled to waste no more time.The trick is to use this effect deliberately from time to time, to practice it onyourself as a kind of wake-up call. The following five actions are designed to putyou on a psychological death ground. Reading and thinking about them won'twork; you must put them into effect. They are forms of pressure to apply toyourself. Depending on whether you want a low-intensity jolt for regular use or areal shock, you can turn the level up or down. The scale is up to you. Stake everything on a single throw. In 1937 the twenty-eight-year-old LyndonB. Johnson--at the time the Texas director of the National Youth Administration--faced a dilemma. The Texas congressman James Buchanan had suddenly died.Since loyal Texan voters tended to return incumbents to office, a Texancongressional seat generally came available only every ten or twenty years--andJohnson wanted to be in Congress by the time he was thirty; he did not have tenyears to wait. But he was very young and was virtually unknown in Buchanan'sold district, the tenth. He would be facing political heavyweights whom voterswould heavily favor. Why try something that seemed doomed to failure? Notonly would the race be a waste of money, but the humiliation, if Johnson lostbadly, could derail his long-term ambitions.Unlimited possibilities are not suited to man; if they existed, his life wouldonly dissolve in the boundless. To become strong, a man's life needs thelimitations ordained by duty and voluntarily accepted. The individual attainssignificance as a free spirit only by surrounding himself with these limitationsand by determining for himself what his duty is. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.Johnson considered all this--then decided to run. Over the next few weeks,he campaigned intensely, visiting the district's every backwater village and town,shaking the poorest farmer's hand, sitting in drugstores to meet people who hadnever come close to talking to a candidate before. He pulled every trick in thebook--old-style rallies and barbecues, newfangled radio ads. He worked nightand day--and hard. By the time the race was over, Johnson was in