and develop our own voice, and we spend ourlives tied to ideas that are not our own. The solution, as Gould discovered, issubtle: Even as we listen and incorporate the ideas of our mentors, we mustslowly cultivate some distance from them. We begin by gently adapting theirideas to our circumstances, altering them to fit our style and inclinations. As weprogress we can become bolder, even focusing on faults or weaknesses in someof their ideas. We slowly mold their knowledge into our own shape. As we growin confidence and contemplate our independence, we can even grow competitivewith the mentor we once worshipped. As Leonardo da Vinci said, “Poor is theapprentice who does not surpass his Master.”4. Create a back-and-forth dynamicIn 1978, a promising lightweight boxer named Freddie Roach traveled to LasVegas with his father in search of a trainer that could elevate him to the nextlevel. And as previously narrated in chapter 1 (see page 38), Freddie and hisfather quickly settled on Eddie Futch, one of the most legendary boxing coachesin the field.Futch had a magnificent résumé. As a young man he had sparred with Joe Futch had a magnificent résumé. As a young man he had sparred with JoeLouis. Barred from turning professional because of a heart murmur, he became atrainer, working later with some of the most illustrious heavyweights, includingJoe Frazier. He was a quiet, patient man who knew how to give preciseinstructions; he was a master at improving a fighter’s technique. Under hisguidance, Roach advanced quickly, winning his first ten bouts.Soon, however, Roach began to notice a problem: in training he listenedintently to what Futch had to say, and put it into practice with relative ease. Butin actual bouts, the moment he exchanged blows with his opponent, he wouldsuddenly throw out all the technique he had learned and fight on pure emotion.Sometimes this worked, but he took a lot of blows, and his career started tosputter. What surprised him several years into the process was that Futch did notreally seem to notice this problem of his. With so many fighters in his stable, hetended to keep his distance; he did not give much personalized attention.Finally, in 1986, Roach retired. Living in Vegas and moving from one badjob to another, in his off-hours he began to frequent the gym where he hadtrained. Soon he was giving advice to fighters and helping out. Without gettingpaid, he became a de facto assistant to Futch, even directly training a few of thefighters himself. He knew Futch’s system well and had internalized many of thetechniques he taught. He added his own wrinkle to the training sessions. He tookthe mitt work—the large padded gloves that a trainer uses in the ring to practicevarious punches and combinations with his fighter—to a higher level, creating alonger and more fluid practice session. It also gave Roach a chance to be moreinvolved in the action, something he missed. After several years he realized hewas good at this and so left Futch to begin his own career as a