contactwith him. In moments of panic, fatigue, or disorganization, or whensomething out of the ordinary has to be demanded from them, the personalexample of the commander works wonders, especially if has had the wit tocreate some sort of legend around himself.FIELD MARSHAL ERWIN ROMMEL, 1891-1944The cause can be anything you wish, but you should represent it asprogressive: it fits the times, it is on the side of the future, so it is destined tosucceed. If necessary, you can give it a veneer of spirituality. It is best to havesome kind of enemy to hate--an enemy can help a group to define itself inopposition. Ignore this step and you are left with an army of mercenaries. Youwill deserve the fate that usually awaits such armies. Step 2: Keep their bellies full. People cannot stay motivated if their materialneeds go unmet. If they feel exploited in any way, their natural selfishness willcome to the surface and they will begin to peel off from the group. Use a cause--something abstract or spiritual--to bring them together, but meet their materialneeds. You do not have to spoil them by overpaying them; a paternalistic feelingthat they are being taken care of, that you are thinking of their comfort, is moreimportant. Attending to their physical needs will make it easier to ask more ofthem when the time comes. Step 3: Lead from the front. The enthusiasm with which people join a causeinevitably wanes. One thing that speeds up its loss, and that produces discontent,is the feeling that the leaders do not practice what they preach. Right from thebeginning, your troops must see you leading from the front, sharing their dangersand sacrifices--taking the cause as seriously as they do. Instead of trying to pushthem from behind, make them run to keep up with you. Step 4: Concentrate their ch'i. There is a Chinese belief in an energy calledch'i, which dwells in all living things. All groups have their own level of ch'i,physical and psychological. A leader must understand this energy and know howto manipulate it.Idleness has a terrible effect on ch'i. When soldiers are not working, theirspirits lower. Doubts creep in, and selfish interests take over. Similarly, being onthe defensive, always waiting and reacting to what the enemy dishes out, willalso lower ch'i. So keep your soldiers busy, acting for a purpose, moving in adirection. Do not make them wait for the next attack; propelling them forwardwill excite them and make them hungry for battle. Aggressive actionconcentrates ch'i, and concentrated ch'i is full of latent force.During the Spring and Autumn era, the state of Qi was invaded by the statesof Jin and Yan. At first the invaders overcame the military forces of Qi. One ofthe eminent nobles of the court of Qi recommended the martialist Tian Rangjuto the lord of Qi. To this man, later called Sima Rangju, is attributed thefamous military handbook "Sima's Art of War."...The lord of Qi thensummoned Rangju to discuss military matters with him. The lord was verypleased with what Rangju had to say,