left the courtand returned to his diocese, where he remained for a long time, humiliated andhumbled.THE LION, THE WOLF AND THE FOXA very old lion lay ill in his cave. All of the animals came to pay theirrespects to their king except for the fox. The wolf, sensing an opportunity,accused the fox in front of the lion: "The fox has no respect for you or yourrule. That's why he hasn't even come to visit you." Just as the wolf was saying this, the fox arrived, and he overheard these words. Then the lion roared inrage at him, but the fox managed to say in his own defence: "And who, of allthose who have gathered here, has rendered Your Majesty as much service asI have done? For I have traveled far and wide asking physicians for a remedyfor your illness, and I have found one." The lion demanded to know at oncewhat cure he had found, and the fox said: "It is necessary for you to flay awolf alive, and then take his skin and wrap it around you while it is stillwarm." The wolf was ordered to be taken away immediately and flayed alive.As he was carried off, the fox turned to him with a smile and said: "Youshould have spoken well of me to His Majesty rather than ill." FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C.InterpretationThe bishop of Noyon was not a harmless man. His conceit had made him thinkhis power had no limits. He was grossly unaware of the offense he had given toso many people, but no one could confront him or bring his behavior to hisattention. The abbe hit upon the only real way to bring such a man down. Hadhis parody been too obvious, it would not have been very entertaining, and thebishop, its poor victim, would have won sympathy. By making it devilishlysubtle, and making the bishop complicit in it as well, de Caumartin bothentertained the court (always important) and let Noyon dig his own grave withhis reaction--from the heights of vanity to the depths of humiliation and rage.Suddenly aware of how people saw him, the bishop lost his balance, evenalienating the king, who had once found his vanity amusing. Finally he had toabsent himself from court, to many people's relief.The worst colleagues and comrades are often the ones with inflated egos,who think everything they do is right and worthy of praise. Subtle mockery anddisguised parody are brilliant ways of one-upping these types. You seem to becomplimenting them, your style or ideas even imitating theirs, but the praise hasa sting in its tail: Are you imitating them to poke fun at them? Does your praisehide criticism? These questions get under their skin, making them vaguelyinsecure about themselves. Maybe you think they have faults--and maybe thatopinion is widely shared. You have disturbed their high sense of self, and theywill tend to respond by overreacting and overplaying their hand. This strategyworks particularly well on those who fancy themselves powerful intellectualsand who are impossible to best in any kind