to secure the position. He managed to geta personal interview and showed Sullivan some of the more interesting drawingshe had done on his own; he engaged him in a conversation about art andphilosophy, knowing Sullivan’s own aesthetic predilections. Sullivan hired himfor the job, and a few months later made him an apprentice draftsman in hisfirm. Wright cultivated a personal relationship with him, eagerly playing the roleof the son that Sullivan had never had. With his talent and Sullivan’s blessing, hequickly rose to the position of head draftsman in the firm. Wright became, as heput it, “the pencil in Sullivan’s hand.” In 1893 Sullivan fired him formoonlighting, but by then Wright had learned everything he could and was morethan prepared to step out on his own. Sullivan had given him in those five yearsan education in modern architecture that no one else could have provided. In 1906 Carl Jung was a promising thirty-one-year-old psychiatrist, renownedfor his work in experimental psychology and holding an important position at thefamous Burghölzli Psychiatric Hospital in Zurich. But despite the apparentsuccess in his life, he felt insecure. He believed that his interest in the occult andstrange psychic phenomena was a weakness he needed to work through. He wasfrustrated that his treatment of patients was often not effective. He worried thathis work had no legitimacy and that he lacked a certain rigor. He began tocorrespond with the founder of the psychoanalytic field, Sigmund Freud, fifty-one years old at the time. Jung was ambivalent about Freud—he admired, evenworshipped him as a pioneer in the field, but he did not like his emphasis on sexas the determining factor in neurosis. Perhaps his aversion to this aspect ofFreudian psychology stemmed from his own prejudices or ignorance, andneeded to be overcome by talking it out. In their correspondence they quicklydeveloped a good rapport, and Jung was able to question the Master aboutmatters of psychology he did not fully understand.A year later they finally met in Vienna, and talked nonstop for thirteen hours.The younger man charmed Freud—he was so much more creative than his otheracolytes. He could serve as his successor in the psychoanalytic movement. ForJung, Freud could be the father figure and mentor he so desperately needed—agrounding influence. They traveled together to the United States, saw each otheron frequent visits, and corresponded incessantly. But some five years into therelationship, Jung’s initial ambivalence returned. He began to find Freud ratherdictatorial. He chafed at the idea of having to follow Freudian dogma. He nowclearly understood why he had initially disagreed with the emphasis on sexualityas the root of all neuroses.By 1913 they had a definitive break, Jung forever banished from Freud’sinner circle. But through this relationship, Jung had worked out all of his doubtsand sharpened certain core ideas about human psychology. In the end, thestruggle had strengthened his sense of identity. Without this mentorship, hewould have never come to such a clear resolution and been capable of startinghis own rival school of psychoanalysis.Sometime in the late 1960s, V. S. Ramachandran, a medical student