from Russia in 1812, when they pounced on him with horrible fervor.Napoleon had allowed petty emotion--the desire to humiliate, revengehimself, and force obedience--to infect his strategy. Had he stayed focused on hislong-term interests, he would have known that it was better to weaken Prussiaand Austria psychologically rather than physically--to seduce them withapparently generous terms, transforming them into devoted allies instead ofresentful satellites. Many in Prussia had initially seen Napoleon as a greatliberator. Had he only kept Prussia as a happy ally, he would have survived thedebacle in Russia and there would have been no Waterloo.Learn the lesson well: brilliant plans and piled-up conquests are not enough.You can become the victim of your own success, letting victory seduce you intogoing too far, creating hard-bitten enemies, winning the battle but losing thepolitical game after it. What you need is a strategic third eye: the ability to stayfocused on the future while operating in the present and ending your actions in away that will serve your interests for the next round of war. This third eye willhelp you counteract the emotions that can insidiously infect your cleverstrategies, particularly anger and the desire for revenge.Victory seems to have been achieved. There remains merely a remnant of theevil resolutely to be eradicated as the time demands. Everything looks easy.Just there, however, lies the danger. If we are not on guard, evil will succeedin escaping by means of concealment, and when it has eluded us newmisfortunes will develop from the remaining seeds, for evil does not dieeasily. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.The critical question in war is knowing when to stop, when to make yourexit and come to terms. Stop too soon and you lose whatever you might havegained by advancing; you allow too little time for the conflict to show you whereit is heading. Stop too late and you sacrifice your gains by exhausting yourself,grabbing more than you can handle, creating an angry and vengeful enemy. Thegreat philosopher of war Carl von Clausewitz analyzed this problem, discussingwhat he called "the culminating point of victory"--the optimum moment to endthe war. To recognize the culminating point of victory, you must know your ownresources, how much you can handle, the morale of your soldiers, any signs of aslackening effort. Fail to recognize that moment, keep fighting past it, and youbring on yourself all kinds of unwanted consequences: exhaustion, escalating cycles of violence, and worse.At the turn of the twentieth century, the Japanese watched as Russia madeadvances into China and Korea. In 1904, hoping to stem Russian expansion, theylaunched a surprise attack on the Russian-held town of Port Arthur, on the coastof Manchuria. Since they were clearly the smaller country and had fewermilitary resources, they hoped that a quick offensive would work in their favor.The strategy--the brainchild of Baron Gentaro Kodama, vice chief of Japan'sgeneral staff--was effective: by stealing the initiative, the Japanese were able tobottle up the Russian fleet at Port Arthur while they landed armies in Korea.That allowed them to defeat the Russians in