took them,then wheeled to the south, aiming at the French weak point. Although they metresistance from the outnumbered enemy, they quickly broke through and weresoon able to take the key positions that would allow them to turn north andsurround Napoleon. But at 9:00 A.M., as the last alliance troops (some 60,000men in all) made their way to the heights and headed south, word reached theallied commanders that something unexpected was afoot: a large French force,invisible to them beyond the Pratzen Heights, was suddenly heading due east,straight for the town of Pratzen itself and the center of the allied lines.Kutusov saw the danger: the allies had advanced so many men into the gapin the French lines that they had left their own center exposed. He tried to turnback the last troops heading south, but it was too late. By 11:00 A.M. the Frenchhad retaken the heights. Worse, French troops had come up from the southwestto reinforce the southern position and prevent the allies from surrounding the French. Everything had turned around. Through the town of Pratzen, the Frenchwere now pouring through the allied center and were swiftly moving to cut offthe retreat of the allied troops to their south.Each part of the allied army--north, center, and south--was now effectivelyisolated from the others. The Russians in the southernmost position tried toretreat farther to the south, but thousands of them lost their lives in the frozenlakes and marshes in their path. By 5:00 P.M. the rout was complete, and a trucewas called. The Austro-Russian army had suffered terrible casualties, far morethan the French. The defeat was so great that the alliance collapsed; thecampaign was over. Somehow Napoleon had snatched victory from defeat.Austerlitz was the greatest triumph of his career. Interpretation In the crisis leading up to the Battle of Austerlitz, Napoleon'sadvisers and marshals had thought only of retreat. Sometimes it is better, theybelieved, to accept a setback willingly and go on the defensive. On the other sidestood the czar and his allies, who had Napoleon weak. Whether they waited toenvelop him or attacked right away, they were on the offensive.In the middle was Napoleon, who, as a strategist, stood far above both hisown advisers and marshals, on the one hand, and the czar and alliance generalson the other. His superiority lay in the fluidity of his thinking: he did notconceive war in mutually exclusive terms of defense and offense. In his mindthey were inextricably linked: a defensive position was the perfect way todisguise an offensive maneuver, a counterattack; an offensive maneuver wasoften the best way to defend a weak position. What Napoleon orchestrated atAusterlitz was neither retreat nor attack but something far more subtle andcreative: he fused defense and offense to set up the perfect trap.When the enemy finds itself in a predicament and wants to engage us in adecisive battle, wait; when it is advantageous for the enemy but not for us tofight, wait; when it is expedient to remain still and whoever moves first willfall into danger, wait; when two enemies