to dig elaborate tunnels under its walls. They were also able toleave stockpiles of weapons at key points. During the Tet holiday, they infiltratedeven more of their men into the city, dressed as peasants. Confederates inside thefortress helped them to overrun some of the guard posts and open the gates.Melting into the local population, they made it impossible for the Citadel'sdefenders to distinguish friend from foe. Finally, having reconnoitered thelocation of the concentrated command structure inside the Citadel, the NorthVietnamese were able to take it out right away, leaving the defenders unable tocommunicate with one another. This created mass confusion, and in the process the defense of the Citadel collapsed.The North Vietnamese called this strategy the "blooming lotus." It has deeproots in Asian military thinking, and its applications go far beyond war. Insteadof focusing on the enemy's formidable front, on capturing key points in theperiphery of its defenses and finding a way through them (the traditionalWestern approach), the lotus strategy aims first and foremost at the center--thesoft and vulnerable parts within. The goal is to funnel soldiers and confederatesinto this central area by whatever means possible and to attack it first in order tospread confusion. Rather than trying to penetrate defenses, it infiltrates them.This includes the minds of the enemy soldiers and officers--strategizing to getunder their skin, to unbalance their reasoning powers, to soften them up fromwithin. As with the lotus flower, everything unfolds from the center of the target.To attack or to intervene. --We often make the mistake of actively opposing atendency or party or age because we happen to have seen only its externalside, its deliquescence or the "faults of its virtues" necessarily adhering to it--perhaps because we ourselves have participated in them to a marked degree.Then we turn our back on them and go off in an opposite direction; but itwould be better if we sought out their good and strong side instead or evolvedand developed it in ourself. It requires, to be sure, a more penetrating eye anda more favorable inclination to advance what is imperfect and evolving thanto see through it in its imperfection and deny it.HUMAN, ALL TOO HUMAN, FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1878The basic principle here is that it is easiest to topple a structure--a wall, agroup, a defensive mind--from the inside out. When something begins to rot orfall apart from within, it collapses of its own weight--a far better way to bring itdown than ramming yourself against its walls. In attacking any group, the lotusstrategist thinks first of opening an inner front. Confederates on the inside willprovide valuable intelligence on the enemy's vulnerabilities. They will silentlyand subtly sabotage him. They will spread internal dissension and division. Thestrategy can weaken the enemy to the point where you can finish him off with apenetrating blow; it can also bring down the enemy in and of itself.A variation on the lotus strategy is to befriend your enemies, worming yourway into their hearts and minds. As your targets' friend, you will naturally learntheir needs and insecurities, the soft