whatwas happening, they became prone to giving in or to becoming emotional andmaking mistakes. This was Kissinger's version of slow-slow-quick-quick.For their initial thrust into France during World War II, the Germans chose toattack through the Ardennes Forest in southern Belgium. The forest, consideredimpenetrable by tank, was lightly guarded. Pushing through this weak point, theGermans were able to build up speed and momentum. In launching a blitzkrieg,you must begin by finding your enemy's weak point. Initiating the action wherethere will be less resistance will allow you to develop crucial momentum.The success of this strategy depends on three things: a group that is mobile(often, the smaller the better), superior coordination between the parts, and theability to send orders quickly up and down the chain of command. Do notdepend on technology to accomplish this. During the Vietnam War, the U.S.military might in fact have been hindered by its superior communications--toomuch information to be processed made for slower response times. The NorthVietnamese, who depended on a well-coordinated network of spies andinformers, not gadgetry, made decisions more quickly and as a result were morenimble on the ground.Shortly after being elected president in 1932, Franklin D. Roosevelt seemedto disappear from the public stage. The Depression was at its height, and formany Americans this was not very reassuring. Then, with his inauguration,Roosevelt changed tempo, giving a rousing speech that showed he had in factbeen meditating deeply on the issues facing the country. In the weeks thatfollowed, he came at Congress fast and furiously, with a series of bold legislativeproposals. The intensity of this new direction was felt all the more because of theslow setup. More than mere drama, the momentum built by this strategy helpedRoosevelt to convince the public that he meant business and was leading thecountry in the right direction. This momentum translated into support for hispolicies, which in turn helped spur confidence and turn the economy around.Veni, vidi, vici (I came, I saw, I conquered). JULIUS CAESAR, 100-44 B.C.Speed, then, is not only a powerful tool to use against an enemy, but it canalso have a bracing, positive influence on those on your side. Frederick the Greatnoted that an army that moves quickly has higher morale. Velocity creates asense of vitality. Moving with speed means there is less time for you and yourarmy to make mistakes. It also creates a bandwagon effect: more and morepeople admiring your boldness, will decide to join forces with you. LikeRoosevelt, make such decisive action as dramatic as possible: a moment of quietand suspense on the stage before you make your startling entrance.Image: The Storm. The sky becomes still and calm, and a lull sets in,peaceful and soothing. Then, out of nowhere, lightning strikes, the windpicks up...and the sky explodes. It is the suddenness of the storm that isso terrifying.Authority: You must be slow in deliberation and swift in execution.--Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821)REVERSALSlowness can have great value, particularly as a setup. To appear slow anddeliberate, even a little foolish, will lull your enemies, infecting them with asleepy attitude. Once their guard