You invent exercises that work upon yourweaknesses. You give yourself arbitrary deadlines to meet certain standards,constantly pushing yourself past perceived limits. In this way you develop yourown standards for excellence, generally higher than those of others.In the end, your five hours of intense, focused work are the equivalent of tenfor most people. Soon enough you will see the results of such practice, andothers will marvel at the apparent ease in which you accomplish your deeds.6. Apprentice yourself in failureOne day in 1885, the twenty-three-year old Henry Ford got his first look at thegas-powered engine, and it was instant love. Ford had apprenticed as a machinistand had worked on every conceivable device, but nothing could compare to hisfascination with this new type of engine, one that created its own power. Heenvisioned a whole new kind of horseless carriage that would revolutionizetransportation. He made it his Life’s Task to be the pioneer in developing suchan automobile.Working the night shift at the Edison Illuminating Company as an engineer,during the day he would tinker with the new internal-combustion engine he wasdeveloping. He built a workshop in a shed behind his home and startedconstructing the engine from pieces of scrap metal he salvaged from anywherehe could find them. By 1896, working with friends who helped him build acarriage, he completed his first prototype, which he called the Quadricycle, anddebuted it on the streets of Detroit.At the time there were many others working on automobiles with gas-powered engines. It was a ruthlessly competitive environment in which newcompanies died by the day. Ford’s Quadricycle looked nice and ran well, but itwas too small and incomplete for large-scale production. And so he began workon a second automobile, thinking ahead to the production end of the process. Ayear later he completed it, and it was a marvel of design. Everything was gearedtoward simplicity and compactness. It was easy to drive and maintain. All thathe needed was financial backing and sufficient capital to mass-produce it.To manufacture automobiles in the late 1890s was a daunting venture. Itrequired a tremendous amount of capital and a complex business structure, considering all of the parts that went into production. Ford quickly found theperfect backer: William H. Murphy, one of the most prominent businessmen inDetroit. The new company was dubbed the Detroit Automobile Company, andall who were involved had high hopes. But problems soon arose. The car Fordhad designed as a prototype needed to be reworked—the parts came fromdifferent places; some of them were deficient and far too heavy for his liking. Hekept trying to refine the design to come closer to his ideal. But it was taking fartoo long, and Murphy and the stockholders were getting restless. In 1901, a yearand a half after it had started operation, the board of directors dissolved thecompany. They had lost faith in Henry Ford.In analyzing this failure, Ford came to the conclusion that he had been tryingto make his automobile serve too many consumer needs. He would try a secondtime, starting out with a lightweight and smaller