we're usually fooling ourselves; what we have are notgoals but wishes. Our emotions infect us with hazy desire: we want fame,success, security--something large and abstract. This haziness unbalances ourplans from the beginning and sets them on a chaotic course. What havedistinguished all history's grand strategists and can distinguish you, too, arespecific, detailed, focused goals. Contemplate them day in and day out, andimagine how it will feel to reach them and what reaching them will look like. Bya psychological law peculiar to humans, clearly visualizing them this way willturn into a self-fulfilling prophecy.Having clear objectives was crucial to Napoleon. He visualized his goals inintense detail--at the beginning of a campaign, he could see its last battle clearlyin his mind. Examining a map with his aides, he would point to the exact spotwhere it would end--a ridiculous prediction, it might seem, since not only is warin any period subject to chance and to whatever the enemy comes up with tosurprise you, but the maps of Napoleon's era were notoriously unreliable. Yettime and again his predictions would prove uncannily correct. He would alsovisualize the campaign's aftermath: the signing of the treaty, its conditions, howthe defeated Russian czar or Austrian emperor would look, and exactly how theachievement of this particular goal would position Napoleon for his nextcampaign.As a young man, Lyndon B. Johnson, despite his limited education, wasdetermined to become president one day. Dream turned into obsession: he couldpicture himself as president, strutting the world's stage. As he advanced in hiscareer, he never did anything without one eye on this ultimate objective. In 1957,Johnson, by that time a Texas senator, supported a civil rights bill. That damagedhim in Texas but elevated him nationally: apparently a senator from the Southhad stuck his neck out, risking his job. Johnson's vote caught the attention ofJohn F. Kennedy, who, in the campaign of 1960, nominated him for vicepresident--the job that was ultimately Johnson's stepping-stone to the presidency. Clear long-term objectives give direction to all of your actions, large andsmall. Important decisions become easier to make. If some glittering prospectthreatens to seduce you from your goal, you will know to resist it. You can tellwhen to sacrifice a pawn, even lose a battle, if it serves your eventual purpose.Your eyes are focused on winning the campaign and nothing else.Your goals must be rooted in reality. If they are simply beyond your means,essentially impossible for you to realize, you will grow discouraged, anddiscouragement can quickly escalate into a defeatist attitude. On the other hand,if your goals lack a certain dimension and grandeur, it can be hard to staymotivated. Do not be afraid to be bold. In the large sense, you are working outfor yourself what Alexander experienced as his destiny and what FriedrichNietzsche called your "life's task"--the thing toward which your natural leaningsand aptitudes, talents and desires, seem to point you. Assigning yourself a lifetask will inspire and guide you.The goal's nature is critical: some objectives, if realized, will hurt you in thelong run. The objectives of grand strategy in