invention of the safety bicycle (the first bicycle featuring two wheels of thesame size), America had become seized with a biking craze. The brotherspurchased their own bicycles, entered races, and became fanatics in the sport. purchased their own bicycles, entered races, and became fanatics in the sport.Soon they were taking their bicycles apart and making minor adjustments.Seeing them at work in the backyard, friends and acquaintances would bringthem their own bicycles for repairs. Within months they knew bicycletechnology from the inside out, and decided to open their own shop in theirnative Dayton, Ohio, where they sold, repaired and even modified the latestmodels.This seemed to be the perfect match for their skills. They could make variouschanges on a bicycle, take it out for a test ride, feel what worked and didn’twork, and then make further improvements. They were constantly striving tomake the bicycles more maneuverable and aerodynamic, changes that wouldqualitatively alter the experience of riding and give the rider a feeling of being incomplete control. Dissatisfied with the latest designs, they decided that the nextlogical step was to build their own aluminum frames and design their owncustom-built bicycle. This represented a steep challenge—it would requiremonths of on-the-job learning to be able to properly build frames. The slightestflaw could cause all kinds of horrifying accidents. In the process of learning thisskill, they purchased a slew of the latest tools, built their own one-cylinderengine to power them, and steadily became master bicycle craftsmen. Those whorode the Wright brothers’ bicycles could feel right away the superiority of theirversion, which included technological improvements that would soon becomeindustry standards.In 1896, while convalescing from an injury, Wilbur read an article thatwould haunt him for years. It concerned the death of Otto Lilienthal, the leadingdesigner of gliders and an expert in the growing field of aviation. He had died ina crash with his latest glider design. The photographs of the various gliders hehad built, all in flight, astounded Wilbur—they looked like the wings of a giantprehistoric bird. As someone with a powerful sense of visualization, Wilburcould imagine the sensation of flying itself, and it thrilled him. But whatsurprised him in the article was that over many years of test flights, perhapsnumbering in the hundreds, Lilienthal had never been able to maintain the flightlong enough to get a feel for the necessary improvements, and had probably diedbecause of this.Several years later, newspapers were filled with stories about the latestpioneers in aviation, many of whom appeared to be getting closer to the goal ofcreating a motored flying machine. It was now turning into a race to be the firstto succeed. His curiosity on the subject getting deeper, Wilbur decided to writeto the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., requesting all of theiravailable information on aeronautics and flying machines. For the next few available information on aeronautics and flying machines. For the next fewmonths he pored over the materials, reading about the physics and mathematicsbehind flight, the designs of Leonardo da Vinci, and the gliders of the nineteenthcentury. He added to his