before Kutusov could reach it and forced Mack'signominious surrender at Ulm, with hardly a shot being fired (see chapter 6).This bloodless victory was a masterpiece, but to exploit it to its fullest, Napoleonneeded to catch Kutusov before the Russian general could himself be reinforcedby more Russian or Austrian troops. To that end, Napoleon sent the bulk of hisarmy east, toward Vienna, hoping to trap the retreating Russian forces. But thepursuit bogged down: the weather was bad, the French troops were tired, theirmarshals made mistakes, and, most important, the wily Kutusov was cleverer inretreat than in attack. Managing to elude the French, he reached the town ofOlmutz, northeast of Vienna, where the remaining Austro-Russian forces werestationed.Now the situation reversed: suddenly it was Napoleon who was in gravedanger. The strength of his corps was their mobility; relatively small, they werevulnerable individually and worked best when operating close enough to oneanother to come fast to one another's support. Now they were dispersed in a longline from Munich to Vienna, which Napoleon had taken after his victory overMack at Ulm. The men were hungry, tired, and short of supplies. The Austriansfighting the French in northern Italy had given up the battle there and were inretreat--but that put them heading northeast, posing a threat to Napoleon'ssouthern flank. To the north, the Prussians, seeing that Napoleon was in trouble,were considering joining the alliance. If that happened, they could wreak havocon Napoleon's extended lines of communication and supply--and the two armiesmoving in from north and south could squeeze him to death.Napoleon's options were abysmal. To continue the pursuit of Kutusov wouldfurther extend his lines. Besides, the Russians and Austrians were now 90,000strong and in an excellent position at Olmutz. To stay put, on the other hand, wasto risk being slowly swallowed by armies on all sides. Retreat seemed the onlysolution, and it was what his generals advised, but with the weather deteriorating(it was mid-November) and the enemy sure to harass him, that would be costly, too. And retreat would mean that his victory at Ulm had been wasted--atremendous blow to the morale of his men. That would virtually invite thePrussians to join the war, and his enemies the English, seeing him vulnerable,might go so far as to invade France. Whatever path he chose seemed to lead todisaster. For several days he went into deep thought, ignoring his advisers andporing over maps.A rapid, powerful transition to the attack--the glinting sword of vengeance--isthe most brilliant moment of the defense.CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ, 1780-1831Meanwhile, at Olmutz, the Austrian and Russian leaders--among them theAustrian Emperor Francis I and the young czar Alexander I--watched Napoleon'smoves with intense curiosity and excitement. They had him where they wantedhim; surely they would be able to recoup the disaster at Ulm and then some.On November 25, alliance scouts reported that Napoleon had moved a largepart of his army to Austerlitz, halfway between Vienna and Olmutz. There itlooked as if his forces were occupying the Pratzen Heights, a position that wouldindicate preparation for battle. But Napoleon had only