the loser in any battle may be too traumatized to fight again but mayalso learn from the experience and move on. Err on the side of caution; be ready.Never let your enemy surprise you in war. AMIDST THE TURMOIL OF EVENTS, DO NOTLOSE YOUR PRESENCE OF MINDTHE COUNTERBALANCE STRATEGYIn the heat of battle, the mind tends to lose its balance. Too many things confrontyou at the same time--unexpected setbacks, doubts and criticisms from your ownallies. There's a danger of responding emotionally, with fear, depression, orfrustration. It is vital to keep your presence of mind, maintaining your mentalpowers whatever the circumstances. You must actively resist the emotional pullof the moment--staying decisive, confident, and aggressive no matter what hitsyou. Make the mind tougher by exposing it to adversity. Learn to detach yourselffrom the chaos of the battlefield. Let others lose their heads; your presence ofmind will steer you clear of their influence and keep you on course.[Presence of mind] must play a great role in war, the domain of theunexpected, since it is nothing but an increased capacity of dealing with theunexpected. We admire presence of mind in an apt repartee, as we admirequick thinking in the face of danger.... The expression "presence of mind"precisely conveys the speed and immediacy of the help provided by theintellect.ON WAR, CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ, 1780-1831THE HYPERAGGRESSIVE TACTICVice Admiral Lord Horatio Nelson (1758-1805) had been through it all. He hadlost his right eye in the siege of Calvi and his right arm in the Battle of Tenerife.He had defeated the Spanish at Cape St. Vincent in 1797 and had thwartedNapoleon's Egyptian campaign by defeating his navy at the Battle of the Nile thefollowing year. But none of his tribulations and triumphs prepared him for theproblems he faced from his own colleagues in the British navy as they preparedto go to war against Denmark in February 1801.Nelson, England's most glorious war hero, was the obvious choice to leadthe fleet. Instead the Admiralty chose Sir Hyde Parker, with Nelson his second- in-command. This war was a delicate business; it was intended to force thedisobedient Danes to comply with a British-led embargo on the shipping ofmilitary goods to France. The fiery Nelson was prone to lose his cool. He hatedNapoleon, and if he went too far against the Danes, he would produce adiplomatic fiasco. Sir Hyde was an older, more stable, even-tempered man whowould do the job and nothing more.Nelson swallowed his pride and took the assignment, but he saw troubleahead. He knew that time was of the essence: the faster the navy sailed, the lesschance the Danes would have to build up their defenses. The ships were ready tosail, but Parker's motto was "Everything in good order." It wasn't his style tohurry. Nelson hated his casualness and burned for action: he reviewedintelligence reports, studied maps, and came up with a detailed plan for fightingthe Danes. He wrote to Parker urging him to seize the initiative. Parker ignoredhim.More life may trickle out of men through thought than through a gapingwound.THOMAS