of impatience and aimed at obtaining speedy victorycould only be gross errors.... It was necessary to accumulate thousands ofsmall victories to turn them into a great success.GENERAL VO NGUYEN GIAP, 1911-Frederick would repeat this strategy again and again, taking over small stateshere and there that weren't worth fighting for, at least not hard. In this way,almost before anyone noticed, he made Prussia a great power. Had he begun byinvading some larger territory, he would have shown his ambitions too clearlyand brought down upon himself an alliance of powers determined to maintainthe status quo. The key to his piecemeal strategy was an opportunity that fell intohis lap. Austria was at a weak moment; Silesia was small, yet by incorporatingthis neighboring state, Prussia enriched its resources and put itself in position forfurther growth. The two combined gave him momentum and allowed him spaceto slowly expand from small to large.The problem that many of us face is that we have great dreams andambitions. Caught up in the emotions of our dreams and the vastness of ourdesires, we find it very difficult to focus on the small, tedious steps usuallynecessary to attain them. We tend to think in terms of giant leaps toward ourgoals. But in the social world as in nature, anything of size and stability growsslowly. The piecemeal strategy is the perfect antidote to our natural impatience:it focuses us on something small and immediate, a first bite, then how and wherea second bite can get us closer to our ultimate objective. It forces us to think interms of a process, a sequence of connected steps and actions, no matter howsmall, which has immeasurable psychological benefits as well. Too often themagnitude of our desires overwhelms us; taking that small first step makes themseem realizable. There is nothing more therapeutic than action. In plotting this strategy, be attentive to sudden opportunities and to yourenemies' momentary crises and weaknesses. Do not be tempted, however, to tryto take anything large; bite off more than you can chew and you will beconsumed with problems and disproportionately discouraged if you fail to copewith them.The fait accompli strategy is often the best way to take control of a projectthat would be ruined by divided leadership. In almost every film AlfredHitchcock made, he had to go through the same wars, gradually wresting controlof the film from the producer, the actors, and the rest of the team. His struggleswith screenwriters were a microcosm of the larger war. Hitchcock alwayswanted his vision for a film to be exactly reflected in the script, but too firm ahand on his writer's neck would get him nothing except resentment and mediocrework. So instead he moved slowly, starting out by giving the writer room towork loosely off his notes, then asking for revisions that shaped the script hisway. His control became obvious only gradually, and by that time the writer wasemotionally tied to the project and, however frustrated, was working for hisapproval. A very patient man, Hitchcock let his power plays unfold over time, sothat producer,