not careful, you will wastevaluable mental space trying to figure out their real feelings, their mood of themoment, their fleeting motivations.It is best to cultivate both distance and a degree of detachment from otherpeople’s shifting emotions so that you are not caught up in the process. Focus ontheir actions, which are generally more consistent, and not on their words. Donot take so seriously people’s promises or their ardor in wanting to help you. Ifthey come through, so much the better, but be prepared for the more frequentchange of heart. Rely upon yourself to get things done and you will not bedisappointed.Passive Aggression: The root cause of all passive aggression is the humanfear of direct confrontation—the emotions that a conflict can churn up and theloss of control that ensues. And so because of this fear some people look forindirect means for getting their way, making their attacks subtle enough so that itis hard to figure out what is going on, while giving them control of the dynamic.We are all passive-aggressive to some extent. Procrastinating on a project,showing up late, or making offhand comments designed to upset people arecommon forms of low-level passive aggression. When dealing with this low-level variety in others, you can call them on their behavior and make them awareof it, which can often work. Or, if it is truly harmless, simply ignore it. But thereare people out there seething with insecurities who are veritable passive-aggressive warriors and can literally ruin your life.Your best defense is to recognize such types before you become embroiled ina battle, and avoid them like the plague. The most obvious clues come from theirtrack record—they have a reputation, you hear stories of past skirmishes, and soon. Take a look at the people around them, such as assistants—do they act with on. Take a look at the people around them, such as assistants—do they act withunusual caution and terror in their presence? Sometimes you are confusedbecause you suspect sabotage or obstruction, but they present such a friendly orbenign exterior. Discard the exterior and focus only on their actions and you willhave a clearer picture. If they evade you and delay necessary action onsomething important to you, or make you feel guilty and leave you unsure why,or if they act harmfully but make it seem like an accident, you are most likelyunder a passive-aggressive attack. You have one of two options: either get out oftheir way and leave their presence, or return the attack with something equallyindirect, signaling in some subtle way that messing with you will come with aprice. This will often discourage them and make them find another victim. At allcost, avoid entangling yourself emotionally in their dramas and battles. They aremasters at controlling the dynamic, and you will almost always lose in the end. Developing social intelligence will not simply help you manage your relationswith other people—acquiring it will also have an immensely beneficial effect onyour ways of thinking and on your creativity in general. Look at the example ofBenjamin Franklin. With people,