the other. Control people'sperceptions of reality and you control them.THE FALSE MIRROROn November 3, 1943, Adolf Hitler had a document distributed to his topgenerals: Directive 51, which discussed his conviction that the Allies wouldinvade France the following year and explained how to beat them. For yearsHitler had depended on a kind of intuition in making his most important strategicdecisions, and time and again his instincts had been right; the Allies had triedbefore to make him believe that an invasion of France was imminent, but eachtime Hitler had seen through the deception. This time he was not only sure thatthe invasion was coming, he felt he knew exactly where it would come: the Pasde Calais, the region of France along the English Channel that was the country'sclosest point to Britain.In war-time, truth is so precious that she should always be attended by abodyguard of lies.WINSTON CHURCHILL, 1874-1965The Pas de Calais had a number of major ports, and the Allies would need aport to land their troops. The region was also where Hitler planned to place hisV-1 and V-2 rockets, soon to be operational; with these jet-propelled unmanned missiles so close to London, he could bomb Britain into submission. The Englishknew he was putting missiles there, and that provided them yet another reason toinvade France at the Pas de Calais, before Hitler could begin his bombingcampaign.Dudley Clarke was always clear--and a little later it will be shewn to havebeen a pity that others were not equally so--that you can never, by deception,persuade an enemy of anything not according with his own expectations,which usually are not far removed from his hopes. It is only by using yourknowledge of them that you are able to hypnotize him, not just into thinking,but doing what you want.MASTER OF DECEPTION, DAVID MURE, 1980In Directive 51, Hitler warned his commanders to expect the Allies to wagea major deception campaign to cloak the time and place of the invasion. TheGermans had to see through these deceptions and repel the landing, and despiterecent setbacks in the German war effort, Hitler felt supremely confident theycould. Several years earlier he had commissioned the construction of the AtlanticWall, a line of forts up and down the coast from France to Norway, and he hadover 10 million soldiers at his disposal, a million of them in France alone. TheGerman armaments industry was churning out ever more and better weapons.Hitler also controlled most of Europe, giving him enormous resources andendless options for moving his troops here and there.Finally, to invade France the Allies would need a massive armada, which,once assembled, would be impossible to conceal. Hitler had infiltrated agentsinto all levels of the British military, who supplied him with excellentintelligence--they would forward to him the time and location of the invasion.The Allies would not surprise him. And once he had defeated them on the shoresof France, England would have to sue for peace; Roosevelt would certainly losethe upcoming U.S. presidential election. Hitler could then concentrate his entirearmy against the Soviet Union and finally defeat it.