help herdizzy spells. When one person circumscribes the behavior of another whiledenying that he is doing so, the relationship begins to be rather peculiar. Forexample, when a wife requires her husband to be home every night becauseshe has anxiety attacks when she is left alone, he cannot acknowledge thatshe is controlling his behavior because she is not requiring him to be home--the anxiety is and her behavior is involuntary. Neither can he refuse to let hercontrol his behavior for the same reason.STRATEGIES OF PSYCHOTHERAPY, JAY HALEY, 1963REVERSALThe reversal of passive aggression is aggressive passivity, presenting anapparently hostile face while inwardly staying calm and taking no unfriendlyaction. The purpose here is intimidation: perhaps you know you are the weakerof the two sides and hope to discourage your enemies from attacking you bypresenting a blustery front. Taken in by your appearance, they will find it hard to believe that you do not intend to do anything. In general, presenting yourself asthe opposite of what you really are and intend can be a useful way of disguisingyour strategies. SOW UNCERTAINTY AND PANIC THROUGHACTS OF TERRORTHE CHAIN-REACTION STRATEGYTerror is the ultimate way to paralyze a people's will to resist and destroy theirability to plan a strategic response. Such power is gained through sporadic actsof violence that create a constant feeling of threat, incubating a fear that spreadsthroughout the public sphere. The goal in a terror campaign is not battlefieldvictory but causing maximum chaos and provoking the other side into desperateoverreaction. Melting invisibly into the population, tailoring their actions for themass media, the strategists of terror create the illusion that they are everywhereand therefore that they are far more powerful than they really are. It is a war ofnerves. The victims of terror must not succumb to fear or even anger; to plot themost effective counterstrategy, they must stay balanced. In the face of a terrorcampaign, one's rationality is the last line of defense.THE ANATOMY OF PANICIn Isfahan (in present-day Iran) toward the end of the eleventh century, Nizamal-Mulk, the powerful vizier to Sultan Malik Shah, ruler of the great Islamicempire of the period, became aware of a small yet irritating threat. In northernPersia lived a sect called the Nizari Ismailis, followers of a religion combiningmysticism with the Koran. Their leader, the charismatic Hasan-i-Sabah, hadrecruited thousands of converts alienated by the tight control the empireexercised over religious and political practices. The influence of the Ismailis wasgrowing, and what was most disturbing to Nizam al-Mulk was the utter secrecyin which they operated: it was impossible to know who had converted to thesect, for its members did so in private and kept their allegiance hidden."Brothers," says an Ismaili poet, "when the time of triumph comes, with goodfortune from both worlds as our companion, then by one single warrior onfoot a king may be stricken with terror, though he own more than a hundredthousand horsemen." QUOTED IN THE ASSASSINS, BERNARD LEWIS, 1967The vizier monitored their activities as best he could, until finally he heardsome news that roused him