and hearing of the next one, with orders to raise adin and keep their picket fires burning, while visible preparations were madeat the camp to effect a crossing....... When Porus had been lulled into a senseof false security and all preparations were completed at the camp and thecrossing place, Alexander set out secretly and kept at some distance from thewestern bank of the river so that his march would not be observed....THE GENERALSHIP OF ALEXANDER THE GREAT, J. F. C. FULLER,1960At first, as Sempronius had expected, his tough, disciplined legions faredwell against the Carthaginians. But on one side the Roman lines were made upof Gallic tribesmen fighting for the Romans, and here, suddenly, theCarthaginians unleashed a group of elephants ridden by archers. The tribesmenhad never seen such beasts; they panicked and fell into a chaotic retreat. At thesame time, as if out of nowhere, some 2,000 Carthaginians, hidden in densevegetation near the river, fell on the Romans' rear. The Romans fought bravely toget out of the trap that Hannibal had laid for them, but thousands of themdrowned in the frigid waters of the Trebia.The battle was a disaster, and back in Rome emotions turned from outrage toanxiety. Legions were quickly dispatched to block the most accessible passes inthe Apennines, the mountains that run across central Italy, but once againHannibal defied expectations: he crossed the Apennines at their most unlikely,most inhospitable point, one that no army had ever passed through beforebecause of the treacherous marshes on the other side. But after four days oftrudging through soft mud, Hannibal brought the Carthaginians to safe ground.Then, in yet another clever ambush, he defeated a Roman army at LakeTrasimene, in present-day Umbria. Now his path to Rome was clear. In a state ofnear panic, the Roman republic resorted to the ancient tradition of appointing adictator to lead them through the crisis. Their new leader, Fabius Maximus,quickly built up the city's walls and enlarged the Roman army, then watchedperplexed as Hannibal bypassed Rome and headed south into Apulia, the mostfertile part of Italy, and began to devastate the countryside.Determined first and foremost to protect Rome, Fabius came up with a novel strategy: he would post his legions in mountainous areas where Hannibal'scavalry would be harmless, and he would harass the Carthaginians in a guerrilla-style campaign, denying them supplies and isolating them in their position so farfrom home. Avoiding direct battle with their formidable leader at all costs, hewould defeat them by exhausting them. But many Romans saw Fabius's strategyas disgraceful and unmanly. Worse, as Hannibal continued to raid thecountryside, he hit none of Fabius's many properties, making it seem as if thetwo were in cahoots. Fabius became more and more unpopular.Having razed Apulia, Hannibal entered a fertile plain in Campania, toRome's south--terrain that Fabius knew well. Finally deciding he had to act or bethrown out of power, the dictator devised a trap: he stationed Roman armies atall the exit points from the plain, each army close enough to support the other.But Hannibal had entered Campania