it can come as the resultof constant work on a project. In any event, pressed by circumstances, we feelunusually energized and focused. Our minds become completely absorbed in thetask before us. This intense concentration sparks all kinds of ideas—they cometo us as we fall asleep, out of nowhere, as if springing from our unconscious. Atthese times, other people seem less resistant to our influence; perhaps we aremore attentive to them, or we appear to have a special power that inspires theirrespect. We might normally experience life in a passive mode, constantlyreacting to this or that incident, but for these days or weeks we feel like we candetermine events and make things happen.We could express this power in the following way: Most of the time we livein an interior world of dreams, desires, and obsessive thoughts. But in this periodof exceptional creativity, we are impelled by the need to get something done thathas a practical effect. We force ourselves to step outside our inner chamber ofhabitual thoughts and connect to the world, to other people, to reality. Instead offlitting here and there in a state of perpetual distraction, our minds focus andpenetrate to the core of something real. At these moments, it is as if our minds—turned outward—are now flooded with light from the world around us, andsuddenly exposed to new details and ideas, we become more inspired andcreative.Once the deadline has passed or the crisis is over, this feeling of power andheightened creativity generally fades away. We return to our distracted state and heightened creativity generally fades away. We return to our distracted state andthe sense of control is gone. If only we could manufacture this feeling, orsomehow keep it alive longer … but it seems so mysterious and elusive.The problem we face is that this form of power and intelligence is eitherignored as a subject of study or is surrounded by all kinds of myths andmisconceptions, all of which only add to the mystery. We imagine that creativityand brilliance just appear out of nowhere, the fruit of natural talent, or perhaps ofa good mood, or an alignment of the stars. It would be an immense help to clearup the mystery—to name this feeling of power, to examine its roots, to definethe kind of intelligence that leads to it, and to understand how it can bemanufactured and maintained.Let us call this sensation mastery—the feeling that we have a greatercommand of reality, other people, and ourselves. Although it might besomething we experience for only a short while, for others—Masters of theirfield—it becomes their way of life, their way of seeing the world. (Such Mastersinclude Leonardo da Vinci, Napoleon Bonaparte, Charles Darwin, ThomasEdison, and Martha Graham, among many others.) And at the root of this poweris a simple process that leads to mastery—one that is accessible to all of us.The process can be illustrated in the following manner: Let us say we arelearning the piano, or entering a new job where we must acquire certain skills. Inthe beginning, we are outsiders. Our