he cultivated the ability to home in on thedetails that made them unique and to connect to their experience andmotivations. He built up a high degree of sensitivity to the subtleties of humannature, avoiding the common tendency to lump people together. He madehimself uncommonly patient and open-minded in his dealings with people frommany different cultures and backgrounds. And this social intelligence of hisbecame completely integrated into his intellectual labors—his sharp eye fordetail in scientific work, his fluid manner of thinking and patient approach totackling problems, and his uncanny way of getting into the minds and voices ofthe various characters he created in his writing.Understand: the human brain is an interconnected organ, which is in turninterconnected with our bodies. Our brains developed in tandem with ourexpanding powers as social primates. The refinement of mirror neurons for thepurpose of better communication with people became equally applied to otherforms of reasoning. The ability to think inside objects and phenomena is anintegral part of scientific creativity—from Faraday’s feeling for electricity to thethought experiments of Einstein.In general, the greatest Masters in history—Leonardo, Mozart, Darwin, andothers—displayed a fluid, sensitive way of thinking that developed along withtheir expanding social intelligence. Those who are more rigidly intellectual andinward can go far in their fields, but their work often ends up lacking a inward can go far in their fields, but their work often ends up lacking acreativity, an openness, and a sensitivity to detail that becomes more pronouncedwith time. In the end, the ability to think inside other people is no different fromthe intuitive feel Masters gain in relation to their field of study. To develop yourintellectual powers at the expense of the social is to retard your own progress tomastery, and limit the full range of your creative powers.STRATEGIES FOR ACQUIRING SOCIAL INTELLIGENCEWe must, however, acknowledge … that man with all his noble qualities, with sympathywhich feels for the most debased, with benevolence which extends not only to other men butto the humblest living creature, with his god-like intellect which has penetrated into themovements and constitution of the solar system—with all these exalted powers—Man stillbears in his bodily frame the indelible stamp of his lowly origin.—CHARLES DARWINIn dealing with people, you will often encounter particular problems that willtend to make you emotional and lock you into the Naïve Perspective. Suchproblems include unexpected political battles, superficial judgments of yourcharacter based on appearances, or petty-minded criticisms of your work. Thefollowing four essential strategies, developed by Masters past and present, willhelp you to meet these inevitable challenges and maintain the rational mind-setnecessary for social intelligence.1. Speak through your workA. In 1846, a twenty-eight-year-old Hungarian doctor named Ignaz Semmelweisbegan work as an assistant in the obstetrics department of the University ofVienna, and almost from the beginning he was a man obsessed. The greatdisease that plagued the maternity wards in Europe at the time was that ofchildbed fever. At the hospital where young Semmelweis worked, one in sixmothers died of the disease shortly after giving birth. When their bodies weredissected, doctors would