One need not pay respect or give credit to every one, but in the innermost of his precaution man has a true mirror of a conﬁdant to whom he owes the correction of his errors, and has to thank for it. cxlviii Have the Art of Conversation. That is where the real personality shows itself. No act in life requires more attention, though it be the commonest thing in life. Y ou must either lose or gain by it. If it needs care to write a letter which is but a deliberate and written conversation, how much more the ordinary kind in which there is occasion for a prompt display of intelligence? Experts feel the pulse of the soul in the tongue, wherefore the sage said, "Speak, that I may know thee." Some hold that the art of conversation is to be without art--that it should be neat, not gaudy , like the garments. This holds good for talk between friends. But when held with persons to whom one would show respect, it should be more digniﬁed to answer to the dignity of the person addressed. To be appropriate it should adapt itself to the mind and tone of the interlocutor. And do not be a critic of words, or you will be taken for a pedant; nor a taxgatherer of ideas, or men will avoid you, or at least sell their thoughts dear. in conversation discretion is more important than eloquence. cxlix Know how to put off Ills on Others. To have a shield against ill-will is a great piece of skill in a ruler. It is not the resort of incapacity , as ill-wishers imagine, but is due to the higher policy of having some one to receive the censure of the disaﬀected and the punishment of universal detestation. Everything cannot turn out well, nor can every one be satisﬁed: it is well therefore, even at the cost of our pride, to have such a scapegoat, such a target for unlucky undertakings. cl Know to get your Price for Things. Their intrinsic value is not suﬃcient; for all do not bite at the kernel or look into the interior. Most go with the crowd, and go because they see others go. It is a great stroke of art to bring things into repute; at times by praising them, for praise arouses desire at times by giving them a striking name, which is very useful for putting things at a premium, provided it is done without aﬀectation. Again, it is generally an inducement to profess to supply only connoisseurs, for all think themselves such, and if not, the sense of want arouses the desire. Never call things easy or common: that makes them depreciated rather than made accessible. All rush after the unusual, which is more appetising both for the taste and for the intelligence. cli Think beforehand. To-day for to-morrow , and even for many days hence. The greatest foresight consists in determining beforehand the time of trouble.