time the shattered Armada returned to Spain, forty-four of its ships had beenlost and most of the rest were too damaged to be seaworthy. Almost two-thirdsof its sailors and soldiers had perished at sea. Meanwhile England had lost not asingle ship, and barely a hundred men had died in action.It was a great triumph, but Elizabeth wasted no time on gloating. To savemoney, she immediately decommissioned the navy. She also refused to listen toadvisers who urged her to follow up her victory by attacking the Spanish in theLow Countries. Her goals were limited: to exhaust Philip's resources andfinances, forcing him to abandon his dreams of Catholic dominance andinstituting a delicate balance of power in Europe. And this, indeed, wasultimately her greatest triumph, for Spain never recovered financially from thedisaster of the Armada and soon gave up its designs on England altogether.Limitations are troublesome, but they are effective. If we live economically innormal times, we are prepared for times of want. To be sparing saves us fromhumiliation. Limitations are also indispensable in the regulation of worldconditions. In nature there are fixed limits for summer and winter, day andnight, and these limits give the year its meaning. In the same way, economy, by setting fixed limits upon expenditures, acts to preserve property andprevent injury to the people. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.InterpretationThe defeat of the Spanish Armada has to be considered one of the most cost-effective in military history: a second-rate power that barely maintained astanding army was able to face down the greatest empire of its time. What madethe victory possible was the application of a basic military axiom: attack theirweaknesses with your strengths. England's strengths were its small, mobile navyand its elaborate intelligence network; its weaknesses were its limited resourcesin men, weaponry, and money. Spain's strengths were its vast wealth and its hugearmy and fleet; its weaknesses were the precarious structure of its finances,despite their magnitude, and the lumbering size and slowness of its ships.Elizabeth refused to fight on Spain's terms, keeping her army out of the fray.Instead she attacked Spain's weaknesses with her strengths: plaguing the Spanishgalleons with her smaller ships, wreaking havoc on the country's finances, usingspecial ops to grind its war machine to a halt. She was able to control thesituation by keeping England's costs down while making the war effort more andmore expensive for Spain. Eventually a time came when Philip could only fail: ifthe Armada sank, he would be ruined for years to come, and even if the Armadatriumphed, victory would come so dear that he would ruin himself trying toexploit it on English soil.Understand: no person or group is completely either weak or strong. Everyarmy, no matter how invincible it seems, has a weak point, a place leftunprotected or undeveloped. Size itself can be a weakness in the end. Meanwhileeven the weakest group has something it can build on, some hidden strength.Your goal in war is not simply to amass a stockpile of weapons, to increase yourfirepower so you can blast