of his hands. Hebegan to win fight after fight, in impressive fashion.As the years went by, the relationship began to evolve. In their mitt work,Pacquiao would adjust or improve upon the maneuvers Roach had beendeveloping for the next bout. He gave input on Roach’s strategy, altering it onoccasion. Pacquiao had gained a sixth sense for what Roach was getting at andcould take his thinking further. On one occasion Roach watched Pacquiaoimprovise a maneuver on the ropes in which he ducked out and attacked a fighterfrom an angle instead of head-on. To Roach, this was a move that made instantsense. He wanted to develop this further into a whole new possible style offighting. He was now learning almost as much from Pacquiao. The previoustrainer-fighter relationship had now morphed into something interactive andalive. To Roach, this meant that they could move past the seemingly inevitable alive. To Roach, this meant that they could move past the seemingly inevitableplateau for fighters in which it all became stale and opponents would catch on totheir weaknesses.Working together in this way, Roach was able to transform this one-dimensional, relatively unknown fighter into perhaps the greatest boxer of hisgeneration. In theory, there should be no limit to what we can learn from mentors who havewide experience. But in practice, this is rarely the case. The reasons are several:at some point the relationship can become flat; it is difficult for us to maintainthe same level of attention that we had in the beginning. We might come toresent their authority a little, especially as we gain in skill and the differencebetween us becomes somewhat less. Also, they come from a differentgeneration, with a different worldview. At a certain point, some of theircherished principles might seem a bit out of touch or irrelevant, and weunconsciously tune them out. The only solution is to evolve a more interactivedynamic with the mentor. If they can adapt to some of your ideas, therelationship becomes more animated. Feeling a growing openness on their partto your input, you are less resentful. You are revealing to them your ownexperiences and ideas, perhaps loosening them up so their principles don’tharden into dogma.Such a style of interaction is more in tune with our democratic times and canserve as something of an ideal. But it should not go along with a rebelliousattitude or a lessening in respect. The dynamic sketched out earlier in thischapter remains the same. Like Pacquiao, you bring to the relationship theutmost in admiration and your total attention. You are completely open to theirinstruction. Gaining their respect for how teachable you are, they will fall a bitunder your spell, as Roach did with Pacquiao. With your intense focus, youimprove in your skill levels, giving you the power to introduce more of yourselfand your needs. You give them feedback to their instruction, perhaps adjustsome of their ideas. This must begin with you, as you set the tone with yourhunger to learn. Once a back-and-forth dynamic is sparked, the relationship hasalmost limitless potential for learning and absorbing power.REVERSALIt