they would simply have to mobilize every man available.Since in all her decisions, whether by chance or by choice, Rome took allsteps necessary to make herself great, she did not overlook fraud. She couldnot at the start have been more deceitful than she was in the means she took,as we were saying just now, to acquire allies, since under this title she madethem all her servants, as was the case with the Latins and other peoplesround about. For she first availed herself of their arms in order to subjugate neighbouring peoples and to build up her reputation as a state, and then,having subdued them, she increased to such an extent that she could beatanyone. Nor would the Latins ever have realised that in reality they weremere slaves, if they had not seen the Samnites twice defeated and forced toaccept Rome's terms.THE DISCOURSES, NICCOLO MACHIAVELLI, 1520In the dead of the winter of 1477, the duke, impatient for victory, crossed theJura Mountains heading east. The Swiss were waiting for him near the town ofGrandson. This was the first time the duke had done battle with the Swiss, andhe was caught off guard by what confronted him. It began with the alarmingbellow of Swiss battle horns, which echoed in the mountains, creating afrightening din. Next, thousands of Swiss soldiers advanced down the slopetoward the Burgundians. They marched with perfect precision, packed tight inphalanxes from which their enormous pikes stuck out like the spines of a gianthedgehog in motion. Their flanks and rear were protected by halberdiersswinging spiked battle-axes. It was a terrifying sight. The duke ordered attackafter attack with his cavalry to break up the phalanxes, only to watch them beingslaughtered. His artillery was hard to maneuver in the mountainous terrain. TheSwiss fought with incredible fierceness, and their phalanxes were impenetrable.A reserve Swiss force, hidden in the woods on the Burgundian right,suddenly emerged and attacked. The duke's army fell into a headlong retreat; thebattle ended in a slaughter, from which the duke, however, escaped.A few months later, it was the turn of the Swiss to go on the offensive bymarching into Lorraine. In January 1478 the duke counterattacked with his nowenfeebled forces; again the Burgundians were routed, and this time the duke didnot escape. His body was finally identified on the field of battle, his head clovenin two by a Swiss halberd, his body pierced by pikes.In the months after Charles's death, Louis XI swallowed up Burgundy,eliminating the last great feudal threat to a unified France. The duke hadunknowingly fallen prey to Louis's elaborate plan to destroy him withoutwasting a single French soldier.Six in the third place means: He finds a comrade. Now he beats the drum,now he stops. Now he sobs, now he sings. Here the source of a man's strengthlies not in himself but in his relation to other people. No matter how close tothem he may be, if his center of gravity depends on them, he is inevitablytossed to and fro between joy and sorrow. Rejoicing to high heaven, then