De Caumartin conceived the ideaof subtly mocking Noyon: he would compose his response in perfect imitation ofthe bishop, full of elaborate metaphors and gushing praise for the newestacademician. To make sure he could not get into trouble for this, he would showhis speech to the bishop beforehand. Noyon was delighted, read the text withgreat interest, and even went so far as to supplement it with more effusive wordsof praise and high-flying rhetoric.On the day of the inauguration, the hall of the academy was packed with themost eminent members of French society. (None dared incur the king'sdispleasure by not attending.) The bishop appeared before them, monstrouslypleased to command this prestigious audience. The speech he delivered had aflowery pomposity exceeding any he had given previously; it was tiresome in theextreme. Then came the abbe's response. It started slowly, and many listenersbegan to squirm. But then it gradually took off, as everyone realized that it wasan elaborate yet subtle parody of the bishop's style. De Caumartin's bold satirecaptivated everyone, and when it was over, the audience applauded, loudly andgratefully. But the bishop--intoxicated by the event and the attention--thoughtthat the applause was genuine and that in applauding the abbe's praise of him, the audience was really applauding him. He left with his vanity inflated beyondall proportion.Soon Noyon was talking about the event to one and all, boring everyone totears. Finally he had the misfortune to brag about it to the archbishop of Paris,who had never gotten over the carriage incident. The archbishop could not resist:he told Noyon that the abbe's speech was a joke on him and that everyone in thecourt was laughing at the bishop's expense. Noyon could not believe this, so hevisited his friend and confessor Pere La Chaise, who confirmed that it was true.WHEN TO GIVE ADVICEIn my own view (but compare Motherwell) there is only one correct timewhen the gamesman can give advice: and that is when the gamesman hasachieved a useful though not necessarily a winning lead. Say three up andnine to play at golf, or, in billiards, sixty-five to his opponent's thirty. Most ofthe accepted methods are effective. E.g. in billiards, the old phrase serves. Itruns like this: Gamesman: Look...may I say something? Layman: What?Gamesman: Take it easy. Layman: What do you mean? Gamesman: I mean--you know how to make the strokes, but you're stretching yourself on the rackall the time. Look. Walk up to the ball. Look at the line. And make your stroke.Comfortable. Easy. It's as simple as that. In other words, the advice must bevague, to make certain it is not helpful. But, in general, if properly managed,the mere giving of advice is sufficient to place the gamesman in a practicallyinvincible position.THE COMPLETE UPMANSHIP, STEPHEN POTTER, 1950Now the bishop's former delight turned to the most bitter rage. Hecomplained to the king and asked him to punish the abbe. The king tried todefuse the problem, but he valued peace and quiet, and Noyon's almost insaneanger got on his nerves. Finally the bishop, wounded to the core,