enacted thespirit of his reforms on his behalf, saving him time and making him appear notas a manipulator but as a delegator. His cutting of waste was heavy-handed atfirst, but once he put his stamp on the department, it began to run efficiently onits own--fewer people to deal with, fewer irrelevant reports to read, less wastedtime on every level. This streamlining achieved, Marshall could guide themachine with a lighter touch. The political types who were clogging the chain ofcommand were either retired or joined in the team spirit he infused. His indirectstyle of communicating amused some of his staff, but it was actually a highlyeffective way of asserting his authority. An officer might go home chucklingabout finding Marshall fussing over a gardening bill, but it would slowly dawnon him that if he wasted a penny, his boss would know.Like the War Department that Marshall inherited, today's world is complexand chaotic. It is harder than ever to exercise control through a chain ofcommand. You cannot supervise everything yourself; you cannot keep your eye on everyone. Being seen as a dictator will do you harm, but if you submit tocomplexity and let go of the chain of command, chaos will consume you.The solution is to do as Marshall did: operate through a kind of remotecontrol. Hire deputies who share your vision but can think on their own, actingas you would in their place. Instead of wasting time negotiating with everydifficult person, work on spreading a spirit of camaraderie and efficiency thatbecomes self-policing. Streamline the organization, cutting out waste--in staff, inthe irrelevant reports on your desk, in pointless meetings. The less attention youspend on petty details, the more time you will have for the larger picture, forasserting your authority generally and indirectly. People will follow your leadwithout feeling bullied. That is the ultimate in control.Madness is the exception in individuals but the rule in groups.--Friedrich Nietzsche (1844-1900)KEYS TO WARFARENow more than ever, effective leadership requires a deft and subtle touch. Thereason is simple: we have grown more distrustful of authority. At the same time,almost all of us imagine ourselves as authorities in our own right--officers, notfoot soldiers. Feeling the need to assert themselves, people today put their owninterests before the team. Group unity is fragile and can easily crack.These trends affect leaders in ways they barely know. The tendency is togive more power to the group: wanting to seem democratic, leaders poll thewhole staff for opinions, let the group make decisions, give subordinates inputinto the crafting of an overall strategy. Without realizing it, these leaders areletting the politics of the day seduce them into violating one of the mostimportant rules of warfare and leadership: unity of command. Before it is toolate, learn the lessons of war: divided leadership is a recipe for disaster, the causeof the greatest military defeats in history.Among the foremost of these defeats was the Battle of Cannae, in 216 B.C.,between the Romans and the Carthaginians led by Hannibal. The Romansoutnumbered the Carthaginians two to one but were virtually annihilated