and the Persians had long been bitter enemies. Some eighty years earlier,in fact, Persia had tried to conquer Greece. But the Greeks, renowned fighters,had begun to offer their services to the highest bidder, and within the PersianEmpire there were rebellious cities that Cyrus wanted to punish. Greekmercenaries would be the perfect reinforcements in his large army.Xenophon was not a soldier. In fact, he had led a coddled life, raising dogsand horses, traveling into Athens to talk philosophy with his good friendSocrates, living off his inheritance. He wanted adventure, though, and here hehad a chance to meet the great Cyrus, learn war, see Persia. Perhaps when it wasall over, he would write a book. He would go not as a mercenary (he was toowealthy for that) but as a philosopher and historian. After consulting the oracleat Delphi, he accepted the invitation.Some 10,000 Greek soldiers joined Cyrus's punitive expedition. Themercenaries were a motley crew from all over Greece, there for the money andthe adventure. They had a good time of it for a while, but a few months into thejob, after leading them deep into Persia, Cyrus admitted his true purpose: he wasmarching on Babylon, mounting a civil war to unseat his brother and makehimself king. Unhappy to be deceived, the Greeks argued and complained, butCyrus offered them more money, and that quieted them. The armies of Cyrus and Ataxerxes met on the plains of Cunaxa, not farfrom Babylon. Early in the battle, Cyrus was killed, putting a quick end to thewar. Now the Greeks' position was suddenly precarious: having fought on thewrong side of a civil war, they were far from home and surrounded by hostilePersians. They were soon told, however, that Ataxerxes had no quarrel withthem. His only desire was that they leave Persia as quickly as possible. He evensent them an envoy, the Persian commander Tissaphernes, to provision them andescort them back to Greece. And so, guided by Tissaphernes and the Persianarmy, the mercenaries began the long trek home--some fifteen hundred miles.A few days into the march, the Greeks had new fears: their supplies from thePersians were insufficient, and the route that Tissaphernes had chosen for themwas problematic. Could they trust these Persians? They started to argue amongthemselves.The Greek commander Clearchus expressed his soldiers' concerns toTissaphernes, who was sympathetic: Clearchus should bring his captains to ameeting at a neutral site, the Greeks would voice their grievances, and the twosides would come to an understanding. Clearchus agreed and appeared the nextday with his officers at the appointed time and place--where, however, a largecontingent of Persians surrounded and arrested them. They were beheaded thatsame day.One man managed to escape and warn the Greeks of the Persian treachery.That evening the Greek camp was a desolate place. Some men argued andaccused; others slumped drunk to the ground. A few considered flight, but withtheir leaders dead, they felt doomed.That night Xenophon, who had stayed mostly on the sidelines during theexpedition, had a dream: a lightning bolt from Zeus set fire to his father's house.He