war over who would have ultimateinfluence over the czar. And d'Istria had the advantage: he saw the czar often andcould counteract Metternich's persuasive powers through constant personalcontact.The Turks inevitably moved to suppress the Greek rebellion, and as theiratrocities against the Greeks mounted, it seemed almost certain that the czarwould intervene. But in February 1822, as the revolution was reaching a boilingpoint, the czar made what in d'Istria's eyes was a fatal mistake: he agreed to sendan envoy to Vienna to discuss the crisis with Metternich. The prince loved tolure negotiators to Vienna, where he would charm them to death. D'Istria felt thesituation slipping out of his hands. Now he had just one option: to choose theenvoy who would go to Vienna and brief him in detail.D'Istria's choice was a man called Taticheff, who had been Russia'sambassador to Spain. Taticheff was a shrewd, experienced negotiator. Called infor a meeting shortly before he was to leave, he listened carefully as d'Istria laidout the dangers: Metternich would try to charm and seduce Taticheff; to preventthe czar from intervening, he would offer to negotiate a settlement between the Russians and Turks; and, of course, he would call for a European conference todiscuss the issue. This last was Metternich's favorite ploy: he was always able todominate these conferences and somehow get what he wanted. Taticheff was notto fall under his spell. He was to give Metternich a note from d'Istria arguing thatRussia had a right to come to the aid of fellow Christians suffering at the handsof the Turks. And on no account was he to agree to Russia's participation in aconference.On the eve of his departure for Vienna, Taticheff was unexpectedly called infor a meeting with the czar himself. Alexander was nervous and conflicted.Unaware of d'Istria's instructions, he told Taticheff to tell Metternich that hewanted both to act in accordance with the alliance and to meet his moralobligation in Greece. Taticheff decided he would have to delay giving thismessage as long as he could--it would make his work far too confusing.In his first meeting with Metternich in Vienna, Taticheff took measure of theAustrian minister. He saw him as rather vain, apparently more interested infancy-dress balls and young girls than in Greece. Metternich seemed detachedand somewhat ill-informed; the little he said about the situation in Greecebetrayed confusion. Taticheff read d'Istria's note to him, and, as if withoutthinking, Metternich asked if these were the czar's instructions as well. Put onthe spot, Taticheff could not lie. His hope now was that the czar's rathercontradictory instructions would further confuse the prince, letting Taticheff stayone step ahead.In the days to come, Taticheff had a splendid time in the delightful city ofVienna. Then he had another meeting with Metternich, who asked him if theycould begin negotiations based on the instructions of the czar. Before Taticheffcould think, Metternich next asked what Russia's demands might be in thissituation. That seemed fair, and Taticheff replied that the Russians wanted tomake Greece a protectorate state, to get the alliance's approval for Russianintervention in Greece,