possible, to turn to the bestaccount what is in me and persists in me, and keep a firm hand upon myidiosyncrasies.” These would be the last words he would write. Within a fewdays he was dead, at the age of eighty-three. For Goethe, a turning point came in his life with the great success of TheSorrows of Young Werther. He could not help but be dazzled by his suddenfame. The people around him were clamoring for an encore. He was onlytwenty-five at the time. For the rest of his life he would deny the public such anencore, and none of his subsequent writings would approach the success ofWerther, although in his last years he was recognized as Germany’s great genius.To deny the public what it wanted was an act of tremendous courage. To declineto exploit such fame would mean that it would probably never return. He wouldhave to give up all of that attention. But Goethe felt something within him thatwas much stronger than the lure of fame. He did not want to be imprisoned bythis one book, devoting his life to literature and creating a sensation. And so he chose his own unique and strange path in life, guided by an inner force that hecalled his daemon—a spirit of restlessness that impelled him to explore beyondliterature, to the core of life itself. All that was necessary was to master andchannel this spirit, implanted in him at birth.In the sciences, he followed his unique path, looking for deep patterns innature. He extended his studies to politics, economics and history. Returning toliterature in the last phase of his life, his head now teemed with links between allforms of knowledge. His poetry, novels, and plays were suffused with science,and his scientific investigations were suffused with poetic intuitions. His insightsinto history were uncanny. His mastery was not over this subject or that one, butin the connections between them, based on decades of deep observation andthinking. Goethe epitomizes what was known in the Renaissance as the Ideal ofthe Universal Man—a person so steeped in all forms of knowledge that his mindgrows closer to the reality of nature itself and sees secrets that are invisible tomost people.Today some might see a person such as Goethe as a quaint relic of theeighteenth century, and his ideal of unifying knowledge as a Romantic dream,but in fact the opposite is the case, and for one simple reason: the design of thehuman brain—its inherent need to make connections and associations—gives it awill of its own. Although this evolution might take various twists and turns inhistory, the desire to connect will win out in the end because it is so powerfully apart of our nature and inclination. Aspects of technology now offerunprecedented means to build connections between fields and ideas. Theartificial barriers between the arts and the sciences will melt away under thepressure to know and to express our common reality. Our ideas will becomecloser to nature, more alive and organic. In any way possible, you should striveto be a