some pattern to makeyour enemies believe that your next action will follow true to form. Havinglulled them into complacency, you now have room to work against theirexpectations, break the pattern, and take them by surprise.In the Six-Day War of 1967, the Israelis submitted their Arab enemies to adevastating and lightning-fast defeat. In doing so they confirmed all theirpreexisting military beliefs: the Arabs were undisciplined, their weaponry wasoutdated, and their strategies were stale. Six years later the Egyptian presidentAnwar Sadat exploited these prejudices in signaling that his army was indisarray and still humbled by its defeat in 1967, and that he was squabbling withhis Soviet patrons. When Egypt and Syria attacked Israel on Yom Kippur in1973, the Israelis were caught almost totally by surprise. Sadat had tricked theminto letting down their guard. Betrayer's masterpiece. --To express to a fellow conspirator the grievoussuspicion that one is going to be betrayed by him, and to do so at preciselythe moment one is oneself engaged in betrayal, is a masterpiece of malice,because it keeps the other occupied with himself and compels him for a timeto behave very openly and unsuspiciously, thus giving the actual betrayer fullfreedom of action.HUMAN, ALL TOO HUMAN, FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1878This tactic can be extended indefinitely. Once people feel you have deceivedthem, they will expect you to mislead them again, but they usually think you'lltry something different next time. No one, they will tell themselves, is so stupidas to repeat the exact same trick on the same person. That, of course, is justwhen to repeat it, following the principle of always working against yourenemy's expectations. Remember the example of Edgar Allan Poe's short story"The Purloined Letter": hide something in the most obvious place, because thatis where no one will look. Planted information. People are much more likely to believe something theysee with their own eyes than something they are told. They are more likely tobelieve something they discover than something pushed at them. If you plant thefalse information you desire them to have--with third parties, in neutral territory--when they pick up the clues, they have the impression they are the onesdiscovering the truth. The more you can make them dig for their information, themore deeply they will delude themselves.During World War I, in addition to the infamous standoff on the WesternFront, the Germans and the British fought a lesser-known battle for control ofEast Africa, where both sides had colonies. The man in charge of Englishintelligence in the area was Colonel Richard Meinhertzhagen, and his main rivalon the German side was an educated Arab. Meinhertzhagen's job includedfeeding the Germans misinformation, and he tried hard to deceive this Arab, butnothing seemed to work--the two men were equals at the game. FinallyMeinhertzhagen sent his opponent a letter. He thanked the Arab for his servicesas a double agent and for the valuable information he had supplied to the British.He enclosed a large sum of money and entrusted the letter's delivery to his mostincompetent agent. Sure enough, the Germans captured this agent en route andfound the