Pakistan Palamedes Palestinian terrorists panic Paradine Case, The Paramount Pictures paranoia avoiding playing on people's Paris Paris, archbishop of Parker, Hyde parody passive-aggression strategy confusion as result of conscious vs. semiconscious defending against emotions and pervasiveness of sabotage passivity. See holding back (patience) past, the Path to Power, The: The Years of Lyndon Johnson (Caro) patience. See holding back (patience) Patterson, Floyd Patton, George S. Patton: A Genius for War (D'Este) Peace of Philocrates Pearl Harbor, attack on Peloponnesian War Pemberton, James Peninsular War Pentagon 9/11 attack on people reading reasoning power limitations in types of using Perdiccas, king of Macedonia Pere La Chaise perfect-economy strategy Perrault, Gilles Persia/Persians Athens and Persia/Persians Greece and Islam and Medes and Russia and Persistence of Memory, The: A Biography of Dali (Etherington-Smith) perspective persuasion Peter III, czar of Russia Petrashevsky, Mikhail Petreius Phantom over Vietnam (Trotti) Pharsalus, Battle of Philip II, king of Macedon Philip II, king of Spain Philip the Good (Philip III), duke of Burgundy Philippines Piaget, Jean Picasso, Pablo piecemeal strategy. See fait accompli strategy Piedmont, revolution in Pisander (Athenian politician) Pitney, John J., Jr. plans/planning with branches in maneuver warfare Plato Pleasure Garden, The Poe, Edgar Allan Poggioli, Renato Poland polarity strategy politics alliance strategy in exits and endings in grand strategy and guerrilla warfare in maneuver warfare in one-upmanship in polarity strategy in turning strategy in unconventional warfare in Polk, Shelton Pompeia Pompey Port Arthur, Manchuria Porus Poseidon potential force, position of Potter, Stephen poverty power Pratzen Heights preconceptions preemptive action presence of mind present, the attunement to. See mind, presence of presidential elections, U.S. 1940 1972 1988 Priam Prieras Prince, The (Machiavelli) Protestant Reformation as political victory Proteus Prussia Austria and in Napoleonic Wars Russia and Prussian army. See also German army Auftragstaktik system of general staff of military traditions of reform of Prylis Psalms, Book of Psycho psychoanalysis, terrorism example from psychological aging psychological pressure psychological space psychological types psychological weaknesses Ptolemy public opinion in moral warfare in Roman civil war on Vietnam War during World War II Publius Scipio the Younger. See Scipio Africanus punishment Pyrrhic victory Pyrrhus, king of Epirus Qi (warring state of China) Raft, George Rama Ramayana, The Raphael rational fighting. See emotions, controlling Ratti, Oscar Reagan, Ronald reality Rebecca Records of the Historian (Szuma) Red Army Red Badge of Courage, The (Crane) Red Brigades Reese, Pee Wee Reign of Terror religious fervor Alexander I's Cromwell's Religious Mythology and the Art of War (Aho) religious retreat religious symbolism, in Gandhi's campaign Republican Party in 1936 presidential election in 1972 presidential election Clinton and reputation moral restless, remaining retreat revenge reverse intimidation. See deterrence strategies Revolutionary War, U.S. Richelieu, Cardinal righteous strategy. See moral warfare/warriors rigidity risk taking gambling compared with Ritter, Thelma rivals. See enemy(ies) Robert the Bruce (Robert I), king of Scotland Robespierre Robinson, Jackie Rockefeller, John D. Roman Way, The (Hamilton) Rome/Roman Empire Carthaginians and center-of-gravity strategy used by civil war divide-and-rule used by First Triumvirate of Gaul and Germanic