into gold.This hunger for the magical shortcut has survived to our day in the form ofsimple formulas for success, ancient secrets finally revealed in which a merechange of attitude will attract the right energy. There is a grain of truth andpracticality in all of these efforts—for instance, the emphasis in magic on deepfocus. But in the end all of this searching is centered on something that doesn’texist—the effortless path to practical power, the quick and easy solution, the ElDorado of the mind.At the same time that so many people lose themselves in these endlessfantasies, they ignore the one real power that they actually possess. And unlikemagic or simplistic formulas, we can see the material effects of this power inhistory—the great discoveries and inventions, the magnificent buildings and history—the great discoveries and inventions, the magnificent buildings andworks of art, the technological prowess we possess, all works of the masterfulmind. This power brings to those who possess it the kind of connection to realityand the ability to alter the world that the mystics and magicians of the past couldonly dream of.Over the centuries, people have placed a wall around such mastery. Theyhave called it genius and have thought of it as inaccessible. They have seen it asthe product of privilege, inborn talent, or just the right alignment of the stars.They have made it seem as if it were as elusive as magic. But that wall isimaginary. This is the real secret: the brain that we possess is the work of sixmillion years of development, and more than anything else, this evolution of thebrain was designed to lead us to mastery, the latent power within us all.THE EVOLUTION OF MASTERYFor three million years we were hunter-gatherers, and it was through the evolutionarypressures of that way of life that a brain so adaptable and creative eventually emerged.Today we stand with the brains of hunter-gatherers in our heads.—RICHARD LEAKEYIt is hard for us to imagine now, but our earliest human ancestors whoventured out onto the grasslands of East Africa some six million years ago wereremarkably weak and vulnerable creatures. They stood less than five feet tall.They walked upright and could run on their two legs, but nowhere near as fast asthe swift predators on four legs that pursued them. They were skinny—theirarms could not provide much defense. They had no claws or fangs or poison toresort to if under attack. To gather fruits, nuts, and insects, or to scavenge deadmeat, they had to move out into the open savanna where they became easy preyto leopards or packs of hyenas. So weak and small in number, they might haveeasily become extinct.And yet within the space of a few million years (remarkably short on thetime scale of evolution), these rather physically unimpressive ancestors of ourstransformed themselves into the most formidable hunters on the planet. Whatcould possibly account for such a miraculous turnaround? Some have speculatedthat it was their standing on two legs, which freed up the hands to make toolswith their opposable thumbs and precision grip. But