in the other, always ready to negotiatebut negotiating only while advancing.--Prince Klemens von Metternich (1773-1859)REVERSALIn negotiation as in war, you must not let yourself get carried away: there is adanger in advancing too far, taking too much, to the point where you create anembittered enemy who will work for revenge. So it was after World War I withthe Allies, who imposed such harsh conditions on Germany in negotiating thepeace that they arguably laid the foundations for World War II. A century earlier,on the other hand, when Metternich negotiated, it was always his goal to preventthe other side from feeling wronged. Your purpose in any settlement younegotiate is never to satisfy greed or to punish the other side but to secure yourown interests. In the long run, a punitive settlement will only win you insecurity. KNOW HOW TO END THINGSTHE EXIT STRATEGYYou are judged in this world by how well you bring things to an end. A messy orincomplete conclusion can reverberate for years to come, ruining yourreputation in the process. The art of ending things well is knowing when to stop,never going so far that you exhaust yourself or create bitter enemies that embroilyou in conflict in the future. It also entails ending on the right note, with energyand flair. It is not a question of simply winning the war but the way you win it,the way your victory sets you up for the next round. The height of strategicwisdom is to avoid all conflicts and entanglements from which there are norealistic exits.NO EXITFor the most senior members of the Soviet Politburo--General Secretary LeonidBrezhnev, KGB head Yuri Andropov, and Defense Minister Dmitri Ustinov--thelate 1960s and early '70s seemed a golden era. These men had survived thenightmare of the Stalin years and the bumbling reign of Khrushchev. Now,finally, there was some stability in the Soviet empire. Its satellite states inEastern Europe were relatively docile, particularly after an uprising inCzechoslovakia in 1968 had been squashed. Its archnemesis, the United States,had received a black eye from the Vietnam War. And, most promising of all, theRussians had slowly been able to expand their influence in the Third World. Thefuture looked bright.If one overshoots the goal, one cannot hit it. If a bird will not come to its nestbut flies higher and higher, it eventually falls into the hunter's net. He who intimes of extraordinary salience of small things does not know how to call ahalt, but restlessly seeks to press on and on, draws upon himself misfortune atthe hands of gods and men, because he deviates from the order of nature. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C. A key country in the Russians' plans for expansion was Afghanistan, on theirsouthern border. Afghanistan was rich in natural gas and other minerals and hadports on the Indian Ocean; to make it a Soviet satellite would be a dream cometrue. The Russians had been insinuating themselves into the country since the1950s, helping to train its army, building the Salang Highway from Kabul northto the Soviet