very important skill for the next, creative phase in life.Step Two: Skills Acquisition—The Practice ModeAt some point, as you progress through these initial months of observation, youwill enter the most critical part of the apprenticeship: practice toward theacquisition of skills. Every human activity, endeavor, or career path involves themastering of skills. In some fields, it is direct and obvious, like operating a toolor machine or creating something physical. In others, it is more of a mix of thephysical and mental, such as the observing and collecting of specimens for Charles Darwin. In still others, the skills are more nebulous, such as handlingpeople or researching and organizing information. As much as possible, youwant to reduce these skills to something simple and essential—the core of whatyou need to get good at, skills that can be practiced.In acquiring any kind of skill, there exists a natural learning process thatcoincides with the functioning of our brains. This learning process leads to whatwe shall call tacit knowledge—a feeling for what you are doing that is hard toput into words but easy to demonstrate in action. And to understand how thislearning process operates, it is useful to look at the greatest system ever inventedfor the training of skills and the achievement of tacit knowledge—theapprenticeship system of the Middle Ages.This system arose as a solution to a problem: As business expanded in theMiddle Ages, Masters of various crafts could no longer depend on familymembers to work in the shop. They needed more hands. But it was not worth itfor them to bring in people who would come and go—they needed stability andtime to build up skills in their workers. And so they developed theapprenticeship system, in which young people from approximately the ages oftwelve to seventeen would enter work in a shop, signing a contract that wouldcommit them for the term of seven years. At the end of this term, apprenticeswould have to pass a master test, or produce a master work, to prove their levelof skill. Once passed, they were now elevated to the rank of journeymen andcould travel wherever there was work, practicing the craft.Because few books or drawings existed at the time, apprentices would learnthe trade by watching Masters and imitating them as closely as possible. Theylearned through endless repetition and hands-on work, with very little verbalinstruction (the word “apprentice” itself comes from the Latin prehendere,meaning to grasp with the hand). Because resources such as textiles, wood, andmetals were expensive and could not be wasted on practice runs, apprenticeswould spend most of their time working directly on materials that would be usedfor the final product. They had to learn how to focus deeply on their work andnot make mistakes.If one added up the time that apprentices ended up working directly onmaterials in those years, it would amount to more than 10,000 hours, enough toestablish exceptional skill level at a craft. The power of this form of tacitknowledge is embodied in the great Gothic cathedrals of Europe—masterpiecesof beauty, craftsmanship, and stability, all erected without blueprints