false information--about Allied plans for an attack on theBalkans and Norway, say, and the massing of a fictional army--commanded byPatton, the American general Hitler so feared--opposite the Pas de Calais. (Thisarmy, FUSAG, existed only in piles of phony paperwork and wirelesstransmissions that mimicked a normal army.) German agents were allowed tosteal FUSAG documents and intercept transmissions--carefully misleadingmessages but at the same time banal and bureaucratic ones, too banal to be seenas fake. Working with film designers, the Allies built an elaborate set of rubber,plastic, and wood that from German reconnaissance planes would look like anenormous camp of tents, airplanes, and tanks. The German general who sawFUSAG with his own eyes was misled about the direction he was taking towardLondon: he had actually passed the real army to the west of FUSAG's supposedsite, massing for the invasion of Normandy.Now Ravana said to himself, "These are all petty weapons. I should really getdown to proper business." And he invoked the one called "Maya"--a weaponwhich created illusions and confused the enemy. With proper incantations andworship, he sent off this weapon and it created an illusion of reviving all thearmies and its leaders--Kumbakarna and Indrajit and the others--andbringing them back to the battlefield. Presently Rama found all those who, hethought, were no more, coming on with battle cries and surrounding him.Every man in the enemy's army was again up in arms. They seemed to fall on Rama with victorious cries. This was very confusing and Rama asked Matali,whom he had by now revived, "What is happening now? How are all thesecoming back? They were dead." Matali explained, "In your original identityyou are the creator of illusions in this universe. Please know that Ravana hascreated phantoms to confuse you. If you make up your mind, you can dispelthem immediately." Matali's explanation was a great help. Rama at onceinvoked a weapon called "Gnana"--which means "wisdom" or "perception."This was a very rare weapon, and he sent it forth. And all the terrifyingarmies who seemed to have come on in such a great mass suddenlyevaporated into thin air. THE RAMAYANA, VALMIKI, INDIA, CIRCA FOURTH CENTURY B.C.As the date of the invasion drew near, the Allies left clues combining factand fiction still more intricately. The real time and place of the invasion wereplanted with an agent whom the Germans completely mistrusted, giving Hitlerthe feeling that he had seen through a deception when in fact he was staring atthe truth. Now, if real information on the timing of the invasion somehow leakedout, Hitler would not know what to believe. The Allies knew that reports on thebuying up of Pas de Calais maps in Switzerland would reach Hitler, and thiswould have its own realistic logic. As for the Montgomery sightings in Gibraltar,little did the German agents know they were seeing a look-alike, a man trainedto act like the general. In the end the picture the Allies painted was so real toHitler that well into July he believed in it, long after D-Day had actuallyhappened. Through such subtle deceptions they had compelled