he needed them. He also ordered 6,000 additional marines toreinforce the outpost. But a major attack on Khe Sanh was nothing he wanted todiscourage: in frontal battle the enemy would finally expose itself to severedefeat.In the first few weeks of 1968, all eyes were on Khe Sanh. The White Houseand the U.S. media were certain that the decisive battle of the war was about tobegin. Finally, at dawn on January 21, 1968, the North Vietnamese armylaunched a vicious assault. As both sides dug in, the battle turned into a siege.Soon after the engagement began, the Vietnamese were to celebrate theirlunar New Year, the holiday called Tet. It was a period of revelry, and in time ofwar it was also a traditional moment to declare a truce. This year was nodifferent; both sides agreed to halt the fighting during Tet. Early on the morningof January 31, however, the first day of the New Year, reports began to trickle infrom all over South Vietnam: virtually every major town and city, as well as themost important American bases, had come under Vietcong attack. An armygeneral, tracking the assault pattern on a map, said it "resembled a pinball machine, lighting up with each raid."Parts of Saigon itself had been overrun by enemy soldiers, some of whomhad managed to blow their way through the wall of the U.S. embassy, the verysymbol of the American presence in Vietnam. Marines regained control of theembassy in a bloody fight, which was widely seen on American television. TheVietcong also attacked the city's radio station, the presidential palace, andWestmoreland's own compound at the Tan Son Nhut air base. The city quicklydescended into street fighting and chaos.Outside Saigon, provincial cities, too, came under siege. Most prominentwas the North Vietnamese capture of Hue, the ancient Vietnamese capital and acity revered by Buddhists. Insurgents managed to take control of virtually thewhole city.Meanwhile the attacks on Khe Sanh continued in waves. It was hard forWestmoreland to tell what the main target was: were the battles to the southmerely a means of drawing forces away from Khe Sanh, or was it the other wayaround? Within a few weeks, in all parts of South Vietnam, the Americansregained the upper hand, retaking control of Saigon and securing their air bases.The sieges at Hue and Khe Sanh took longer, but massive artillery and airbombardments eventually doomed the insurgents, as well as leveling entiresections of Hue.When dark inertia increases, obscurity and inactivity, negligence anddelusion, arise. When lucidity prevails, the self whose body dies enters theuntainted worlds of those who know reality. When he dies in passion, he isborn among lovers of action; so when he dies in dark inertia, he is born intowombs of folly. The fruit of good conduct is pure and untainted, they say, butsuffering is the fruit of passion, ignorance the fruit of dark inertia. Fromlucidity knowledge is born; from passion comes greed; from dark inertiacome negligence, delusion, and ignorance. Men who are lucid go upward;men of passion stay in between; men of dark inertia, caught