assure for oneself themaximum freedom of action while at the same time paralysing the enemy by a multitude of deterrent checks, somewhat as the Lilliputians tied up Gulliver.As with all operations designed to deter, action will of course be primarilypsychological; political, economic, diplomatic and military measures will allbe combined towards the same end. The procedures employed to achieve thisdeterrent effect range from the most subtle to the most brutal: appeal will bemade to the legal formulae of national and international law, play will bemade with moral and humanitarian susceptibilities and there will be attemptsto prick the enemy's conscience by making him doubtful of the justice of hiscause. By these methods, opposition from some section of the enemy's internalpublic opinion will be roused and at the same time some sector ofinternational public opinion will be whipped up; the result will be a realmoral coalition and attempts will be made to co-opt the more unsophisticatedsympathizers by arguments based upon their own preconceived ideas. Thisclimate of opinion will be exploited at the United Nations, for instance, or atother international gatherings; primarily, however, it will be used as a threatto prevent the enemy undertaking some particular action.... It is a point worthnoting that, just as in military operations one captures a position on theground and thereby denies it to the enemy, on the psychological plane it ispossible to take over abstract positions and equally deny them to the otherside. The [leaders of the] Soviet Union for instance,...have turned into theirown preserve the peace platform, that of the abolition of atomic weapons(while themselves continuing to develop them) and that of anti-colonialismwhile themselves ruling the only colonial empire still in existence.... It maytherefore be that these ideological positions occupied by the forces ofMarxism may one day be "conquered" by the West; but this presupposes thatthe latter in their indirect strategy have learned the value of thinking andcalculating instead of merely trying to apply juridical or moral principleswhich their enemy can use against them at every turn.INTRODUCTION TO STRATEGY, ANDRE BEAUFRE, 1963It seemed to Leo that Luther had responded to Prieras's threat by raising thetemperature. Clearly the threat had been weak; the pope had been too lenient. Itwas time to show real force and end this war. So Leo wrote a papal bullthreatening Luther with excommunication. He also sent church officials toGermany to negotiate the priest's arrest and imprisonment. These officials,however, came back with shocking news that altered everything: in the few shortyears since the publication of The Ninety-five Theses, Martin Luther, anunknown German priest, had somehow become a sensation, a celebrity, abeloved figure throughout the country. Everywhere the pope's officials went, they were heckled, even threatened with stoning. Shop windows in almost everyGerman town contained paintings of Luther with a halo over his head. "Nine-tenths of the Germans shout 'Long live Luther,'" one official reported to Leo,"and the other tenth 'Death to Rome.'" Luther had somehow aroused the Germanpublic's latent resentment and hatred of the church. And his reputation wasimpeccable: he was a bestselling author, yet