beconducted in person, with no real time limit, and that the interview subjects hadto be as candid as possible about their creative process, their early struggles, andeven failures along the way. All of the people I interviewed were extremelygenerous with their time and gracious in dealing with my often-irritatingquestions. They displayed the kind of open spirit that I believe plays an essentialrole in mastery and success in life.In helping me to set up these interviews I must thank graduate studentElizabeth Seckel, who works with Professor V.S. Ramachandran at UCSD;Jessica Livingston, wife of Paul Graham and founding partner of Y Combinator;Andrew Franklin, my extraordinary publisher at Profile Books in the UnitedKingdom, who helped with the Daniel Everett interview; David Gordon, formerdirector of the Calatrava-enhanced Milwaukee Art Museum, who helped set upthe Santiago Calatrava interview; Mrs. Tina Calatrava; Cheryl Miller, executiveassistant to Temple Grandin; Stephanie Smith, partner at Lehmann Maupin, whohelped with the Teresita Fernández interview; and agents Nick Khan and EvanDick at CAA, who both represent Freddie Roach.I must also thank my mother, Laurette, for all of her patience and love, andfor being my biggest fan. And, of course, I cannot fail to mention Brutus, thegreatest cat who has ever lived and Master hunter.Finally, I would like to thank all those in the past—masters, mentors, andteachers—who over the years slowly opened my eyes to so many ideas, andtaught me how to think. Their presence and spirit are suffused throughout thisbook. SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHYAbernathy, Charles M. and Robert M. Hamm. Surgical Intuition: What It Isand How to Get It. Philadelphia, PA: Hanley & Belfus, Inc., 1995.Adkins, Lesley and Roy. The Keys of Egypt: The Race to Crack theHieroglyph Code. New York: Perennial, 2001.Aurelius, Marcus. Meditations. Trans. Gregory Hays. New York: The ModernLibrary, 2003.Bate, Walter Jackson. John Keats. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press,1963.Bazzana, Kevin. Wondrous Strange: The Life and Art of Glenn Gould.Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2004.Bergman, Ingmar. The Magic Lantern: An Autobiography. Chicago, IL: TheUniversity of Chicago Press, 2007.Bergson, Henri. Creative Evolution. Trans. Arthur Mitchell. New York: HenryHolt and Company, 1911.Beveridge, W. I. B. The Art of Scientific Investigation. Caldwell, NJ: TheBlackburn Press, 1957.Boden, Margaret A. The Creative Mind: Myths and Mechanisms. London,UK: Routledge, 2004.Bohm, David, and F. David Peat. Science, Order, and Creativity. London,UK: Routledge, 1989.Boyd, Valerie. Wrapped in Rainbows: The Life of Zora Neale Hurston. NewYork: Scribner, 2004.Bramly, Serge. Leonardo: The Artist and the Man. Trans. Sian Reynolds. NewYork: Penguin Books, 1994.Brands, H. W. The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin.New York: Anchor Books, 2002.Capra, Fritjof. The Science of Leonardo: Inside the Mind of the Great Geniusof the Renaissance. New York: Doubleday, 2007.Carter, William C. Marcel Proust: A Life. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2000.Chuang Tzu, Basic Writings. Trans. Burton Watson. New York: ColumbiaUniversity Press, 1996.Corballis, Michael C. The Lopsided Ape: Evolution of the Generative Mind.Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 1991.Curie, Eve. Madame Curie: A Biography. Cambridge, MA: Da Capo Press,2001.De Mille, Agnes. Martha: The Life and Work of Martha Graham. New York:Random House, 1991.Donald, Merlin.