theywould have to fight with utter intensity. They would have to be unified; anydissension would lead to defeat and a terrible death. The situation was desperate,but if the men fought desperately in turn, Cortes guaranteed that he would leadthem to victory. Since the army was so small in number, the glory and riches would be all the greater. Any cowards not up to the challenge could sail the oneremaining ship home.There is something in war that drives so deeply into you that death ceases tobe the enemy, merely another participant in a game you don't wish to end.PHANTOM OVER VIETNAM, JOHN TROTTI, USMC, 1984No one accepted the offer, and the last ship was run aground. Over the nextmonths, Cortes kept his army away from Veracruz and the coast. Their attentionwas focused on Tenochtitlan, the heart of the Aztec empire. The grumbling, theself-interest, and the greed all disappeared. Understanding the danger of theirsituation, the conquistadors fought ruthlessly. Some two years after thedestruction of the Spanish ships, and with the help of their Indian allies, Cortes'sarmy laid siege to Tenochtitlan and conquered the Aztec empire."You don't have time for this display, you fool," he said in a severe tone."This, whatever you're doing now, may be your last act on earth. It may verywell be your last battle. There is no power which could guarantee that youare going to live one more minute...." "...Acts have power," he said,"Especially when the person acting knows that those acts are his last battle.There is a strange consuming happiness in acting with the full knowledge thatwhatever one is doing may very well be one's last act on earth. I recommendthat you reconsider your life and bring your acts into that light.... Focus yourattention on the link between you and your death, without remorse or sadnessor worrying. Focus your attention on the fact you don't have time and let youracts flow accordingly. Let each of your acts be your last battle on earth. Onlyunder those conditions will your acts have their rightful power. Otherwisethey will be, for as long as you live, the acts of a timid man." "Is it so terribleto be a timid man?" "No. It isn't if you are going to be immortal, but if youare going to die there is not time for timidity, simply because timidity makesyou cling to something that exists only in your thoughts. It soothes you whileeverything is at a lull, but then the awesome, mysterious world will open itsmouth for you, as it will open for every one of us, and then you will realizethat your sure ways were not sure at all. Being timid prevents us fromexamining and exploiting our lot as men."JOURNEY TO IXTLAN: THE LESSONS OF DON JUAN, CARLOSCASTANEDA, 1972Interpretation On the night of the conspiracy, Cortes had to think fast. What was the root of the problem he faced? It was not Velazquez's spies, or the hostileAztecs, or the incredible odds against him. The root of the problem was his ownmen and the ships in