a wild-goose chase for meaninglessinformation, to create ambiguity as to which way you are going to jump. Themore you break down people's ability to reason about you, the more disorder youinject into their system. The disorder you create is controlled and purposeful, atleast for you. The disorder the enemy suffers is debilitating and destructive.So to win a hundred victories in a hundred battles is not the highestexcellence; the highest excellence is to subdue the enemy's army withoutfighting at all.--Sun-tzu (fourth century B.C.)HISTORICAL EXAMPLES1. On November 10, 1799, Napoleon Bonaparte completed the coup d'etat thatbrought him to power as first consul, giving him near-complete control of theFrench state. For over ten years, France had been convulsed with revolution andwar. Now that Napoleon was leader, his most pressing need was peace, to givethe country time to recoup and himself time to consolidate his power--but peacewould not come easily.France had a bitter enemy in Austria, which had put two large armies in thefield, ready to move against Napoleon: one to the east of the Rhine and the otherin northern Italy under General Michael Melas. The Austrians were clearlyplanning a major campaign. Waiting was too dangerous; Napoleon had to seizethe initiative. He had to defeat at least one of these armies if he were to forceAustria to negotiate peace on his terms. The one trump card he had was thatseveral months earlier a French army had gained control of Switzerland. Therewere also French troops in northern Italy, which Napoleon had taken from the Austrians several years earlier.To plan for the first real campaign under his direction, Napoleon holedhimself up in his office for several days. His secretary, Louis de Bourienne,would recall seeing him lying on giant maps of Germany, Switzerland, and Italylaid out wall to wall on the floor. The desks were piled high with reconnaissancereports. On hundreds of note cards organized into boxes, Napoleon hadcalculated the Austrians' reactions to the feints he was planning. Muttering tohimself on the floor, he mulled over every permutation of attack andcounterattack."Addicts of attrition," as Simpkin calls them, generally cannot think beyondthe battle, and they consider that the only way--or at least the preferred way--to defeat an enemy is to destroy the physical components of his army,especially the combat portions (armored fighting vehicles, troops, guns, etc.).If the attrition addict appreciates war's intangibles at all (such as morale,initiative, and shock), he sees them only as combat multipliers with which tofight the attrition battle better. If the attrition warrior learns about maneuver,he sees it primarily as a way to get to the fight. In other words, he moves inorder to fight. Maneuver theory, on the other hand, attempts to defeat theenemy through means other than simple destruction of his mass. Indeed, thehighest and purest application of maneuver theory is to preempt the enemy,that is, to disarm or neutralize him before the fight. If such is not possible, themaneuver warrior seeks to dislocate the enemy forces, i.e., removing theenemy from the decisive point, or vice versa, thus rendering them useless andirrelevant