final volume, the point at which the narrator would befinally able to write the novel we have been reading, Proust was in a hurry. Hecould feel his energy waning and death approaching. All through the publishingprocess, he would make the publishers stop the printing, as some new incidenthe had personally witnessed had to be included in the book. Now, sensinghimself near death, he made his female attendant take some final notes. Hefinally understood how it felt to be dying, and he had to rewrite a previousdeathbed scene—it was not psychologically real enough. He died two days later,never to see the full seven volumes in print.KEYS TO MASTERYCook Ting was cutting up an ox for Lord Wen-hui…. “Ah, this is marvelous!” said LordWen-hui. “Imagine skill reaching such heights!” Cook Ting laid down his knife and replied,“What I care about is the Way, which goes beyond skill. When I first began cutting up oxen, all I could see was the ox itself. After three years I no longer saw the whole ox. And now—now I go at it by spirit and don’t look with my eyes. Perception and understanding havecome to a stop and spirit moves where it wants.”—CHUANG TZU, ANCIENT CHINESE WRITER, FOURTH CENTURY B.C.Throughout history we read of Masters in every conceivable form of humanendeavor describing a sensation of suddenly possessing heightened intellectualpowers after years of immersion in their field. The great chess Master BobbyFischer spoke of being able to think beyond the various moves of his pieces onthe chessboard; after a while he could see “fields of forces” that allowed him toanticipate the entire direction of the match. For the pianist Glenn Gould, he nolonger had to focus on notes or parts of the music he was playing, but insteadsaw the entire architecture of the piece and could express it. Albert Einsteinsuddenly was able to realize not just the answer to a problem, but a whole newway of looking at the universe, contained in a visual image he intuited. Theinventor Thomas Edison spoke of a vision he had for illuminating an entire citywith electric light, this complex system communicated to him through a singleimage.In all of these instances, these practitioners of various skills described asensation of seeing more. They were suddenly able to grasp an entire situationthrough an image or an idea, or a combination of images and ideas. Theyexperienced this power as intuition, or a fingertip feel.Considering the power such intelligence can bring us, and the tremendouscontributions to culture made by Masters who possess it, it would seem logicalthat such high-level intuition would be the subject of countless books anddiscussions, and that the form of thinking that goes with it would be elevatedinto an ideal for all of us to aim at. But oddly enough, this is not at all the case.This form of intelligence is either ignored, relegated to the inexplicable realmsof the mystical and occult, or ascribed to genius and genetics. Some even try todebunk this type of power in general, claiming that these Masters areexaggerating