only publicize thecharge--and meanwhile Gould's name would be nowhere in evidence. The mediain this instance are perfect as both the smoke screen concealing guerrilla tacticsand the vehicle conveying them. Use the media to goad your enemies, gettingthem to disperse their energies in defending themselves while you watch, or finda new target to raid and ambush. Lacking a real battle to deal with, theirfrustration will mount and lead them to costly mistakes.In conventional warfare the way you supply your army is a critical issue. Inguerrilla warfare, on the other hand, you live off your enemies as much aspossible, using their resources, their energy, and their power as a kind of supplybase. Mao supplied his army mostly with captured equipment and food. Gouldactually started out by infiltrating Vanderbilt's inner circle as a financial partner,then using Vanderbilt's immense resources to fund his mayhem. Using theenemy's materiel will help you to endure the longer length of any successfulguerrilla campaign. In any event, you must plan to live cheaply, marshaling whatyou have for the long run.In most conflicts time is a danger, bringing Murphy's Law into play: ifanything can go wrong, it will. If your army is small and relatively self-sufficient, though, there is less to go wrong, and meanwhile you are working tomake sure that for the enemy the passage of time is a nightmare. Morale issinking, resources are stretched, and even great planners like Napoleon arefinding themselves with problems they could never have foreseen. The effect is exponential: as unexpected problems crop up, the enemy starts making mistakes,which lead to more problems--and so it goes.Make time an offensive weapon in your strategizing. Design your maneuversto keep your enemies just barely going, always thinking that one more battle willdo the trick. You want them to deteriorate slowly; a sudden sharp setback, a clearview of the trap you are laying for them, and they will pull out before thedamage is done. Let them take key positions that give them the illusion ofsuccess. They will hold on to them tenaciously as your raids and pinprick attacksgrow in number. Then, as they weaken, increase the pace of these attacks. Letthem hope, let them think it is all still worth it, until the trap is set. Then breaktheir illusion.Just as you are extending time, contrary to convention, you are alsoextending space. You want to bring the fight to areas outside the theater of war,to include public and international opinion, turning the war into a political andglobal issue and giving the enemy too large a space to defend. Political supportis invaluable to an underdog guerrilla campaign; the longer the fight is drawnout, the more the enemy seems morally unjustified and politically isolated.Always try to ally your guerrilla campaign with a cause you can defend as justand worthy.You will win your guerrilla war in one of two ways. The first route is toincrease the level of your attacks as your enemies deteriorate, then finish themoff, as the Russians finished off Napoleon. The other method is by turning sheerexhaustion to your