was more importantto find the main Zulu force. The British soldiers were beginning to grow edgy,not knowing where this vaporous enemy was. The Zulus had no cavalry, andmany of them fought with spears; once their hiding place was uncovered, the restwould be easy--the superior weaponry and discipline of the British soldierswould prevail. Durnford thought Chelmsford was too cautious. As senior officerat the camp, he decided to disobey orders and lead his 400 men northeast,parallel to the plains of Nqutu, to find out what the Zulus were up to.As Durnford marched out of the camp, a scout on the plains of Nqutu saw afew Zulus herding cattle some four miles away. He gave chase on his horse, butthe Zulus disappeared into thin air. Riding to the point where they had vanished,he stopped his horse just in time: below him lay a wide, deep ravine, completelyhidden from the surface of the plains, and crowded into the ravine, as far as hecould see in both directions, were Zulu warriors in full war regalia, an eerieintensity in their eyes. They seemed to have been meditating on the imminentbattle. For a second the horseman was too stunned to move, but as hundreds ofspears were suddenly aimed at him, he turned and galloped away. The Zulusquickly rose and began clambering out of the ravine.Soon the other scouts on the plains saw the same terrifying sight: a wide lineof Zulus filling the horizon, some 20,000 men strong. Even from a distance, itwas clear that they were moving in formation, each end of their line comingforward in a shape resembling horns. The scouts quickly brought word to thecamp that the Zulus were coming. By the time Durnford received the news, hecould look up to the ridge above him and see a line of Zulus streaming down theslope. He quickly formed his own men into lines to fight them off whileretreating to the camp. The Zulus maneuvered with incredible precision. WhatDurnford could not see was that the men in the left tip of the horn were movingthrough the tall grass toward the rear of the camp, to link up with the other endof the horn and complete the encirclement.The Zulus facing Durnford and his men seemed to grow out of the earth,emerging from behind boulders or from out of the grass in ever-greater numbers.A knot of five or six of them would suddenly charge, throwing spears or firingrifles, then disappear back into the grass. Whenever the British stopped to reload, the Zulus would advance ever closer, occasionally one reachingDurnford's lines and disemboweling a British soldier with the powerful Zuluspear, which made an unbearable sucking sound as it went in and out.The careful use by the Zulus of cover during their advance was observed timeand again by the British. Another anonymous survivor of Isandlwana notedthat as the Zulus crested the Nyoni ridge and came within sight of camp, they"appeared almost to grow out of the earth. From rock and bush on the heightsabove started scores of men; some with rifles,