Resolute. Bad execution of your designs does less harm than irresolution in forming them. Streams do less harm ﬂowing than when dammed up. There are some men so inﬁrm of purpose that they always require direction from others, and this not on account of any perplexity , for they judge clearly , but from sheer incapacity for action. It needs some skill to ﬁnd out diﬃculties, but more to ﬁnd a way out of them. There are others who are never in straits . their clear judgment and determined character ﬁt them for the highest callings: their intelligence tells them where to insert the thin end of the wedge, their resolution how to drive it home. They soon get through anything: as soon as they have done with one sphere of action, they are ready for another. Aﬃanced to Fortune, they make themselves sure of success. lxxiii Utilise Slips. That is how smart people get out of diﬃculties. They extricate themselves from the most intricate labyrinth by some witty application of a bright remark. They get out of a serious contention by an airy nothing or by raising a smile. Most of the great leaders are well grounded in this art. When you have to refuse, it is often the polite way to talk of something else. Sometimes it proves the highest understanding not to understand. lxxiv Do not be Unsociable. The truest wild beasts live in the most populous places. To be inaccessible is the fault of those who distrust themselves, whose honours change their manners. It is no way of earning people's goodwill by being ill-tempered with them. It is a sight to see one of those unsociable monsters who make a point of being proudly impertinent. Their dependants who have the misfortune to be obliged to speak with them, enter as if prepared for a ﬁght with a tiger armed with patience and with fear. To obtain their post these persons must have ingratiated themselves with every one, but having once obtained it they seek to indemnify themselves by disobliging all. It is a condition of their position that they should be accessible to all, yet, from pride or spleen, they are so to none. 'Tis a civil way to punish such men by letting them alone, and depriving them of opportunities of improvement by granting them no opportunity of intercourse. lxxv Choose an Heroic Ideal; but rather to emulate than to imitate. There are exemplars of greatness, living texts of honour. Let every one have before his mind the chief of his calling not so much to follow him as to spur himself on. Alexander wept not on account of Achilles dead and buried, but over himself, because his fame had not yet spread throughout the world. Nothing arouses ambition so much in the heart as the trumpet-clang of another's fame. The same thing that sharpens envy , nourishes a generous spirit. lxxvi Do not always be Jesting. Wisdom is shown in serious matters, and is