mind, he wouldcompletely reconstruct the affair, feeling as deeply as possible the ups anddowns, the bouts of jealousy, as if it were all happening to him. He would do thiswith either gender.Marcel’s father, a prominent doctor, began to despair for his son. Marcelwould attend parties all night, return late in the morning, and sleep through theday. To fit in with high society, he was spending vast amounts of money. Heseemed to have no discipline and no real career aspirations. With his healthproblems and his mother always spoiling him, his father feared Marcel would bea failure and a continuous burden. He tried to push him into a career. Marcelplacated him as best he could—one day he told his father he would study law;the next day he talked of getting a job as a librarian. But in truth, he was bankingeverything on the publication of his first book, Pleasures and Days. It would bea collection of stories and sketches of the society he had infiltrated. Like Thierrywith the Norman Conquest, he would make this world come to life. With thesuccess of this book, he would win over his father and all the other doubters. Toensure its success and make it into more than a book, Pleasures and Days wouldfeature the beautiful drawings of a high-society lady he had befriended, and itwould be printed on the finest paper.After numerous delays, the book was finally published in 1896. Althoughmany of the reviews were positive, they kept referring to the writing as exquisiteand delicate, implying a sort of superficiality to the work. More disturbing, thebook hardly sold. Considering the printing costs it was an enormous financialfiasco, and the public image of Marcel Proust became permanently cemented—he was an elegant dandy, a snob who wrote of the only world he knew, a young man who had no practical sense, a social butterfly who dabbled in literature. Itwas an embarrassment and it demoralized him.The family pressures to finally choose a career now grew intense. Stillconfident in his skills, he decided the only answer was to write another novel,but one that would be the opposite of Pleasures and Days. It would be muchlonger and weightier than the first book. In it he would mix childhood memoriesand recent social experiences. It would depict the lives of all classes of peopleand an entire period in French history. It could not be seen as superficial. But asthe novel became longer and longer, he could not figure out how to make itcohere into something logical, or even into something resembling a story. Hefound himself getting lost in the immensity of his ambition, and despite havingwritten hundreds of pages, by the end of 1899 he gave up the project.He began to grow increasingly depressed and despondent. He was tired ofthe salons and mingling with the rich. He had no career, no position to rely upon;nearing thirty years of age, he was still living at home, dependent on his parentsfor money. He felt constantly anxious about his health, certain he was doomed todie within