actions of an expert. But perhaps mostimportant of all, it would give them the ability to think inside everything aroundthem. After years of studying particular animals, they could identify with andthink like them, anticipating behavioral patterns and heightening their ability totrack and kill prey. This thinking inside could be applied to the inorganic as well.In fashioning a stone tool, expert toolmakers would feel as one with theirinstruments. The stone or wood they cut with became an extension of their hand.They could feel it as if it were their own flesh, permitting much greater controlof the tools themselves, both in making and in using them.This power of the mind could be unleashed only after years of experience.Having mastered a particular skill—tracking prey, fashioning a tool—it was nowautomatic, and so while practicing the skill the mind no longer had to focus onthe specific actions involved but instead could concentrate on something higher—what the prey might be thinking, how the tool could be felt as part of the hand.This thinking inside would be a preverbal version of third-level intelligence—theprimitive equivalent of Leonardo da Vinci’s intuitive feel for anatomy andlandscape or Michael Faraday’s for electromagnetism. Mastery at this levelmeant our ancestors could make decisions rapidly and effectively, having gaineda complete understanding of their environment and their prey. If this power hadnot evolved, the minds of our ancestors would have become easily overwhelmedby the mass of information they had to process for a successful hunt. They haddeveloped this intuitive power hundreds of thousands of years before theinvention of language, and that is why when we experience this intelligence itseems like something preverbal, a power that transcends our ability to put it intowords.Understand: This long stretch of time played a critical, elemental role in our mental development. It fundamentally altered our relationship to time. Foranimals, time is their great enemy. If they are potential prey, wandering too longin a space can spell instant death. If they are predators, waiting too long willonly mean the escape of their prey. Time for them also represents physicaldecay. To a remarkable extent, our hunting ancestors reversed this process. Thelonger they spent observing something, the deeper their understanding andconnection to reality. With experience, their hunting skills would progress. Withcontinued practice, their ability to make effective tools would improve. Thebody could decay but the mind would continue to learn and adapt. Using timefor such effect is the essential ingredient of mastery.In fact, we can say that this revolutionary relationship to time fundamentallyaltered the human mind itself and gave it a particular quality or grain. When wetake our time and focus in depth, when we trust that going through a process ofmonths or years will bring us mastery, we work with the grain of this marvelousinstrument that developed over so many millions of years. We infallibly move tohigher and higher levels of intelligence. We see more deeply and realistically.We practice and make things with skill. We learn to think for ourselves. Webecome capable of handling complex situations without being overwhelmed. Infollowing this path