are capable of organizing large amounts of information. Thefuture belongs to those who learn more skills and combine them in creativeways. And the process of learning skills, no matter how virtual, remains thesame.In the future, the great division will be between those who have trainedthemselves to handle these complexities and those who are overwhelmed bythem—those who can acquire skills and discipline their minds and those who areirrevocably distracted by all the media around them and can never focus enoughto learn. The Apprenticeship Phase is more relevant and important than ever, andthose who discount this notion will almost certainly be left behind.Finally, we live in a culture that generally values intellect and reasoning withwords. We tend to think of working with the hands, of building somethingphysical, as degraded skills for those who are less intelligent. This is anextremely counterproductive cultural value. The human brain evolved inintimate conjunction with the hand. Many of our earliest survival skills dependedon elaborate hand-eye coordination. To this day, a large portion of our brain isdevoted to this relationship. When we work with our hands and build something,we learn how to sequence our actions and how to organize our thoughts. Intaking anything apart in order to fix it, we learn problem-solving skills that havewider applications. Even if it is only as a side activity, you should find a way towork with your hands, or to learn more about the inner workings of the machinesand pieces of technology around you. and pieces of technology around you.Many Masters in history intuited this connection. Thomas Jefferson, whohimself was an avid tinkerer and inventor, believed that craftspeople made bettercitizens because they understood how things functioned and had practicalcommon sense—all of which would serve them well in handling civic needs.Albert Einstein was an avid violinist. He believed that working with his hands inthis way and playing music helped his thinking process as well.In general, no matter your field, you must think of yourself as a builder,using actual materials and ideas. You are producing something tangible in yourwork, something that affects people in some direct, concrete way. To buildanything well—a house, a political organization, a business, or a film—you mustunderstand the building process and possess the necessary skills. You are acraftsman learning to adhere to the highest standards. For all of this, you must gothrough a careful apprenticeship. You cannot make anything worthwhile in thisworld unless you have first developed and transformed yourself.STRATEGIES FOR COMPLETING THE IDEALAPPRENTICESHIPDo not think that what is hard for you to master is humanly impossible; and if it is humanlypossible, consider it to be within your reach.—MARCUS AURELIUSThroughout history, Masters in all fields have devised for themselves variousstrategies to help them pursue and complete an Ideal Apprenticeship. Thefollowing are eight classic strategies, distilled from the stories of their lives andillustrated with examples. Although some might seem more relevant than othersto your circumstances, each of them relates fundamental truths about thelearning process itself that you would be wise to internalize.1. Value learning over moneyIn 1718, Josiah Franklin decided to