but paysdividends down the road in reduced conflict and greater results.The key to any flanking maneuver is to proceed in steps. Your initial movecannot reveal your intentions or true line of attack. Make Napoleon's manoeuvresur les derrieres your model: First hit them directly, as Napoleon did theAustrians at Caldiero, to hold their attention to the front. Let them come at youmano a mano. An attack from the side now will be unexpected and hard tocombat.At a palace reception in Paris in 1856, all eyes were on a new arrival on thescene: an eighteen-year-old Italian aristocrat called the Countess de Castiglione.She was stunningly beautiful and more: she carried herself like a Greek statuecome to life. Emperor Napoleon II, a notorious womanizer, could not help buttake notice and be fascinated, but for the moment that was all--he tended toprefer more hot-blooded women. Yet as he saw her again over the months that followed, he became intrigued despite himself.In events at court, Napoleon and the countess would exchange glances andoccasional remarks. She always left before he could engage her in conversation.She wore stunning dresses, and long after the evening was over, her imagewould return to his mind.What drove the emperor crazy was that he apparently didn't excite her--sheseemed only modestly interested in him. He began to court her assiduously, andafter weeks of assault, she finally succumbed. Yet even now that she was hismistress, he still sensed her coldness, still had to pursue her, was never sure ofher feelings. At parties, too, she would draw men's attention like a magnet,making him furiously jealous. The affair went on, but before too long theemperor naturally tired of the countess and moved on to another woman. Evenso, while it lasted, he could think of no one else.Six in the fifth place means: The tusk of a gelded boar. Good fortune. Herethe restraining of the impetuous forward drive is achieved in an indirect way.A boar's tusk is in itself dangerous, but if the boar's nature is altered, the tuskis no longer a menace. Thus also where men are concerned, wild force shouldnot be combated directly. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.In Paris at the time was Victor-Emmanuel, the king of Piedmont, thecountess's home. Italy was divided into small states like this one at the time, butwith France's support it would soon become a unified nation, and Victor-Emmanuel harbored the secret desire to become its first king. In herconversations with Napoleon, the countess would occasionally talk of the king ofPiedmont, praising his character and describing his love of France and hisstrength as a leader. The emperor could only agree: Victor-Emmanuel wouldmake the perfect king of Italy. Soon Napoleon was broaching this idea with hisadvisers, then actively promoting Victor-Emmanuel for the throne as if it werehis own idea--and eventually he made this happen. Little did he know: his affairwith the countess had been set up by Victor-Emmanuel and his clever adviser,the Count di Cavour. They had planted her in Paris to seduce Napoleon andslowly insinuate the idea of