escalate into something large) or the loss? Take something of realvalue and they will have to choose carefully; they have a big decision to make.Take something small and marginal, though, and it is almost impossible for youropponents to choose battle. There are likely to be many more reasons for leavingyou alone than for fighting over something small. You have played to yourenemy's conservative instincts, which are generally stronger than theiracquisitive ones. And soon your ownership of this property becomes a faitaccompli, part of the status quo, which is always best left alone.Sooner or later, as part of this strategy, you will take another small bite. Thistime your rivals are warier; they are starting to see a pattern. But what you havetaken is once again small, and once again they must ask themselves if fightingyou is worth the headache. They didn't to do it before--why now? Execute a faitaccompli strategy subtly and well, as de Gaulle did, and even though a time maycome when your goal becomes clear, and when they regret their previouspacifism and consider war, by that time you will have altered the playing field:you are neither so small nor so easy to defeat. To take you on now entails adifferent kind of risk; there is a different, more powerful reason for avoidingconflict. Only nibble at what you want and you never spark enough anger, fear,or mistrust to make people overcome their natural reluctance to fight. Letenough time pass between bites and you will also play to the shortness ofpeople's attention spans.The key to the fait accompli strategy is to act fast and without discussion. Ifyou reveal your intentions before taking action, you will open yourself to a slewof criticisms, analyses, and questions: "How dare you think of taking that bite!Be happy with what you have!" It is part of people's conservatism to preferendless discussion to action. You must bypass this with a rapid seizure of yourtarget. The discussion is foreclosed. No matter how small your bite, taking it alsodistinguishes you from the crowd and earns you respect and weight.When Frederick the Great became king of Prussia in 1740, Prussia was aminor European power. Frederick's father had built up the Prussian army, at greatexpense, but had never really used it; the minute he put the army in play, he knew, the other European powers would have united against him, fearing anythreat to the status quo. Frederick, though massively ambitious, understood whathad kept his father in check.The same year he took the throne, however, an opportunity presented itself.Prussia's great nemesis was Austria, where a new leader, Maria Theresa, hadrecently become empress. There were many who questioned her legitimacy,though, and Frederick decided to exploit this political instability by moving hisarmy into the small Austrian province of Silesia. Maria Theresa, wanting toprove her toughness, decided to fight to take it back. The war lasted severalyears--but Frederick had judged the moment well; he finally threatened to takemore territory than Silesia alone, and in the end the empress sued for peace.All the conceptions born