perceive their inner nature. The formershould not be tense [so as to observe as much as possible] ; the latter shouldbe strong [so as to discern the workings of the opponent's mind clearly] .Sometimes a man can read another's mind with his eyes. In fencing, it is allright to allow your own eyes to express your will but never let them revealyour mind. This matter should be considered carefully and studied diligently.MIYAMOTO MUSASHI, 1584-1645The first step in the process is to get over the idea that people areimpenetrable mysteries and that only some trick will let you peek into theirsouls. If they seem mysterious, it is because almost all of us learn to disguise ourtrue feelings and intentions from an early age. If we went around showing justhow we felt and telling people what we planned to do, we would make ourselvesvulnerable to malice, and if we always spoke our minds, we would offend a lotof people unnecessarily. So as we grow up, concealing much of what we arethinking becomes second nature.This deliberate opacity makes the intelligence game difficult but notimpossible. For even as people consciously struggle to conceal what is going onin their minds, they unconsciously want to reveal themselves. Hiding how wefeel in social situations is exhausting; being able to show ourselves is a relief.We secretly want people to know us, even including our dark side. Even whilewe consciously struggle to control this hidden yearning, unconsciously we arealways sending out signals that reveal a part of what is going on inside--slips ofthe tongue, tones of voice, styles of dress, nervous twitches, sudden irrationalactions, a look in the eye that contradicts our words, the things we say after adrink.Anger as spy. --Anger empties out the soul and brings even its dregs to light.That is why, if we know no other way of discovering the truth of the matter,we must know how to put our acquaintances, our adherents and opponents,into a rage, so as to learn all that is really being thought and undertakenagainst us.HUMAN, ALL TOO HUMAN, FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1886Understand: day in and day out, people emit signals that reveal theirintentions and deepest desires. If we do not pick them up, it is because we are not paying attention. The reason for this is simple: we are usually locked up inour own worlds, listening to our internal monologues, obsessed with ourselvesand with satisfying our own egos. Like William Macnaghten, we tend to seeother people merely as reflections of ourselves. To the extent that you can dropyour self-interest and see people for who they are, divorced from your desires,you will become more sensitive to their signals.The ability to read people was a critical survival skill for Japanese samuraiand was particularly emphasized by the Shinkage school of swordsmanship. Oneof the school's earliest masters was the seventeenth-century samurai YagyuMunenori. One spring afternoon in his later years, Munenori was taking apeaceful walk through his gardens, admiring the cherry blossoms. He wasaccompanied by a page/protector, who walked behind him, sword raised, as wasthe custom.