he would avoid any environment that involved politicking. This meantsticking to doing startups on the smallest scale—a constraint that made himdisciplined and creative. Later, when he founded Y Combinator, a kind ofapprenticeship system for tech startups, he could not prevent the company fromgrowing in size—it was too successful. His solution was twofold: One, he hadhis wife and partner in the company, Jessica Livingston, handle all of the trickysocial situations, since she possessed a high level of social intelligence. Two, he maintained a very loose, non-bureaucratic structure to the company.If, like Graham, you simply do not have the patience that is required formanaging and mastering the more subtle and manipulative sides of humannature, then your best answer is to keep yourself away from those situations asbest as possible. This will rule out working in groups larger than a handful ofpeople—above a certain number, political considerations inevitably rise to thesurface. This means working for yourself or on very small startups.Even still, it is generally wise to try to gain the rudiments of socialintelligence—to be able to read and recognize the sharks, and to charm anddisarm difficult people. The reason is that no matter how hard you might try toavoid situations that call for such knowledge, the world is one large teemingcourt of intrigue, and it will inevitably pull you in. Your conscious attempt to optout of the system will retard your apprenticeship in social intelligence and canmake you vulnerable to the worst forms of naïveté, with all of the disasters thatare likely to ensue.It is a great folly to hope that other men will harmonize with us; I have never hoped this. Ihave always regarded each man as an independent individual, whom I endeavored tounderstand with all his peculiarities, but from whom I desired no further sympathy. In thisway have I been enabled to converse with every man, and thus alone is produced theknowledge of various characters and the dexterity necessary for the conduct of life.—JOHANN WOLFGANG VON GOETHE VAWAKEN THE DIMENSIONAL MIND: THECREATIVE-ACTIVEAs you accumulate more skills and internalize the rules that govern your field, your mindwill want to become more active, seeking to use this knowledge in ways that are more suitedto your inclinations. What will impede this natural creative dynamic from flourishing is not alack of talent, but your attitude. Feeling anxious and insecure, you will tend to turnconservative with your knowledge, preferring to fit into the group and sticking to theprocedures you have learned. Instead, you must force yourself in the opposite direction. Asyou emerge from your apprenticeship, you must become increasingly bold. Instead of feelingcomplacent about what you know, you must expand your knowledge to related fields, givingyour mind fuel to make new associations between different ideas. You must experiment andlook at problems from all possible angles. As your thinking grows more fluid your mind willbecome increasingly dimensional, seeing more and more aspects of reality. In the end, youwill turn against the very rules you have internalized, shaping and reforming them to suityour spirit. Such originality will