a showman’s flair. As a mere court musician, Leopold’s incomewas rather limited, but he could see the potential for making a fortune throughhis children. And so, thinking this through, he decided to take his family on agrand tour of the capitals of Europe, playing before royal courts and the publicand charging money for the entertainment. To add to the spectacle, he dressedthe children up—Maria Anna as a princess, and Wolfgang as a court minister,complete with wig, elaborate waistcoat, and a sword dangling from his belt.They began in Vienna, where the children charmed the Austrian emperor andempress. They then spent months in Paris, where they played for the royal courtand Wolfgang bounced on the knee of the delighted King Louis XV. Theycontinued to London where they ended up staying for over a year, playing beforeall kinds of large crowds. And while the sight of the two children in theircostumes charmed audiences enough, Wolfgang’s playing astounded them. Hehad developed numerous parlor tricks, stage-managed by his father. He wouldplay a minuet on a keyboard that was hidden from his view by a cloth, usingonly one finger. He would deftly sight-read the latest composition by a famouscomposer. He would play his own compositions—it was impressive to hear asonata composed by a seven-year-old, no matter how simple it was. Mostmarvelous of all, Wolfgang could play at an incredible speed, his tiny fingersflying over the keyboard.As the tour continued, an amusing pattern began to develop. The familywould be invited to do some sightseeing, tour the countryside, or attend a soirée,while Wolfgang would find some excuse to stay behind—a feigned illness orcomplaints of exhaustion—and would devote his time instead to music. Hisfavorite ploy in this vein was to attach himself to the most illustrious composersin the particular court they were visiting. In London, for instance, he managed tocharm the great composer Johann Christian Bach, son of Johann Sebastian Bach.When the family was invited out on a jaunt, he declined to join them with theperfect excuse—he had already engaged Bach to give him lessons incomposition.The education he received in this fashion, from all of the composers he met,went far beyond anything any child could hope to receive. Although some went far beyond anything any child could hope to receive. Although someargued that it was a waste of childhood for someone so young to be so single-minded, Wolfgang felt such an ardent love for music and the constant challengesit presented that in the end he derived much greater pleasure from his obsessionthan any amusement or game could provide.The tour was a great financial success, but it nearly ended in tragedy. InHolland in 1766, as the family was beginning its return journey, Wolfgang fellill with a powerful fever. Losing weight rapidly, he drifted in and out ofconsciousness, and at one point appeared near death. But miraculously, the feverpassed, and over the course of several months he slowly recovered. Theexperience, however, altered him. From that moment on, he had a constantfeeling of melancholy and a foreboding that he would die young.The