inclination towards conciliation this is usually expressedin language that is too stiff, while the other is apt to be slow to respond--partly from pride or obstinacy and partly from a tendency to interpret such agesture as a sign of weakening when it may be a sign of returning commonsense. Thus the fateful moment passes, and conflict continues--to the commondamage. Rarely does a continuation serve any good purpose where the twoparties are bound to go on living under the same roof. This applies even moreto modern war than to domestic conflict, since the industrialization of nationshas made their fortunes inseparable.STRATEGY, B. H. LIDDELL HART, 1954Johnson's first step was to call to his side the dozens of young men andwomen whom he had helped or hired over the years. His campaign strategy wassimple: he would separate himself from the other contenders by presentinghimself as Roosevelt's staunchest supporter. A vote for Johnson was a vote forthe president, the popular architect of the New Deal. And since Johnson couldnot compete in Austin, he decided to aim his army of volunteers at thecountryside, the sparsely populated Hill Country. This was the district's poorestarea, a place where candidates rarely ventured. Johnson wanted to meet everylast farmer and sharecropper, shake every possible hand, win the votes of peoplewho had never voted before. It was the strategy of a desperate man whorecognized that this was his best and only chance for victory.One of Johnson's most loyal followers was Carroll Keach, who would serveas his chauffeur. Together the two men drove every square mile of the HillCountry, tracing every dirt path and cow trail. Spotting some out-of-the-wayfarmhouse, Johnson would get out of the car, walk to the door, introduce himselfto the startled inhabitants, listen patiently to their problems, then leave with ahearty handshake and a gentle plea for their vote. Convening meetings in dustytowns consisting mainly of a church and a gas station, he would deliver his speech, then mingle with the audience and spend at least a few minutes witheveryone present. He had an incredible memory for faces and names: if hehappened to meet the same person twice, he could recall everything he or shehad said the first time around, and he often impressed strangers by knowingsomeone who knew them. He listened intensely and was always careful to leavepeople with the feeling that they would see him again, and that if he won theywould finally have someone looking out for their interests in Washington. Inbars, grocery stores, and gas stations all through the Hill Country, he would talkwith the locals as if he had nothing else to do. On leaving he would make sure tobuy something--candy, groceries, gasoline--a gesture they greatly appreciated.He had the gift of creating a connection.As the race ran on, Johnson went days without sleep, his voice turninghoarse, his eyes drooping. As Keach drove the length of the district, he wouldlisten in amazement as the exhausted candidate in the car muttered to himselfabout the people he had just met, the impression he had made, what