they are better than you are--smarter, stronger, more competent--is often wise. It gives you breathing space tolay your plans, to manipulate. In a variation on this strategy, the front of virtue,honesty, and uprightness is often the perfect cover in a political world. Thesequalities may not seem weak but serve the same function: they disarm people'ssuspicions. In that situation, though, it is important not to get caught doingsomething underhanded. Appearing as a hypocrite will set you far back in thedeception game.In general, as strategists advocated in the days of ancient China, you shouldpresent a face to the world that promises the opposite of what you are actuallyplanning. If you are getting ready to attack, seem unprepared for a fight or toocomfortable and relaxed to be plotting war. Appear calm and friendly. Doing thiswill help you gain control over your appearance and sharpen your ability to keepyour opponents in the dark. The decoy attack. This is another ruse dating back to ancient times, and itremains perhaps the military's most common deceptive ploy. It began as asolution to a problem: if the enemy knew you were going to attack point A, theywould put all their defenses there and make your job too difficult. But to deceivethem on that score was not easy: even if before battle you were able to disguiseyour intentions and fool them out of concentrating their forces at point A, theminute they actually saw your army headed there, they would rush to its defense.The only answer was to march your army toward point B or, better, to send partof your army in that direction while holding troops in reserve for your realobjective. The enemy would now have to move some or all of its army to defendpoint B. Do the same with points C and D and the enemy would have to disperseall over the map.The key to this tactic is that instead of relying on words or rumors or plantedinformation, the army really moves. It makes a concrete action. The enemyforces cannot afford to guess whether a deception is in the works: if they guess wrong, the consequences are disastrous. They have to move to cover point B, nomatter what. It is in any case almost impossible to doubt the reality of actualtroop movements, with all the time and energy those involve. So the decoyattack keeps the enemy dispersed and ignorant of your intentions--the ultimatedream of any general.The decoy attack is also a critical strategy in daily life, where you mustretain the power to hide your intentions. To keep people from defending thepoints you want to attack, you must follow the military model and make realgestures toward a goal that does not interest you. You must seem to be investingtime and energy to attack that point, as opposed to simply trying to signal theintention with words. Actions carry such weight and seem so real that peoplewill naturally assume that is your real goal. Their attention is distracted fromyour actual objective; their defenses are dispersed and weakened.The principle is also