prepared to march with thevaliant Tenth Legion, the rest of the army, ashamed, begged him to forgive themand let them fight. With a show of reluctance, he did so, and these oncefrightened men fought fiercely.In such cases you must act like Caesar, turning back the tide of panic. Wasteno time, and deal with the whole group. People who spread panic or mutinyexperience a kind of madness in which they gradually lose contact with reality.Appeal to their pride and dignity, make them feel ashamed of their moment ofweakness and madness. Remind them of what they have accomplished in thepast, and show them how they are falling short of the ideal. This social shamingwill wake them up and reverse the dynamic. PART III DEFENSIVE WARFARETo fight in a defensive manner is not a sign of weakness; it is the height ofstrategic wisdom, a powerful style of waging war. Its requirements are simple:First, you must make the most of your resources, fighting with perfect economyand engaging only in battles that are necessary. Second, you must know how andwhen to retreat, luring an aggressive enemy into an imprudent attack. Then,waiting patiently for his moment of exhaustion, launch a vicious counterattack.In a world that frowns on displays of overt aggression, the ability to fightdefensively--to let others make the first move and then wait for their ownmistakes to destroy them--will bring you untold power. Because you wasteneither energy nor time, you are always ready for the next inevitable battle. Yourcareer will be long and fruitful.To fight this way, you must master the arts of deception. By seeming weakerthan you are, you can draw the enemy into an ill-advised attack; by seemingstronger than you are--perhaps through an occasional act that is reckless andbold--you can deter the enemy from attacking you. In defensive warfare you areessentially leveraging your weaknesses and limitations into power and victory.The following four chapters will instruct you in the basic arts of defensivewarfare: economy of means, counterattack, intimidation and deterrence, and howto retreat skillfully and lie low when under aggressive attack. PICK YOUR BATTLES CAREFULLYTHE PERFECT-ECONOMY STRATEGYWe all have limitations--our energies and skills will take us only so far. Dangercomes from trying to surpass our limits. Seduced by some glittering prize intooverextending ourselves, we end up exhausted and vulnerable. You must knowyour limits and pick your battles carefully. Consider the hidden costs of a war:time lost, political goodwill squandered, an embittered enemy bent on revenge.Sometimes it is better to wait, to undermine your enemies covertly rather thanhitting them straight on. If battle cannot be avoided, get them to fight on yourterms. Aim at their weaknesses; make the war expensive for them and cheap foryou. Fighting with perfect economy, you can outlast even the most powerful foe.THE SPIRAL EFFECTIn 281 B.C. war broke out between Rome and the city of Tarentum, on Italy'seast coast. Tarentum had begun as a colony of the Greek city of Sparta; itscitizens still spoke Greek, considered themselves cultured Spartans, and thoughtother Italian cities barbaric. Rome meanwhile was an emerging power,