of Alamut weresecretly converted to Ismailism. Finally, in September 1090, Hasan himselfwas secretly smuggled into the castle. When Mahdi realized that Hasan hadin fact quietly taken over his fortress, he left peacefully....THE TEMPLARS AND THE ASSASSINS, JAMES WASSERMAN, 2001By early 1934, Breton could stand no more, and he issued a statement,cosigned by several members, proposing Dali's expulsion from the surrealistgroup. The movement was split down the middle; Dali had both supporters andenemies. Finally a meeting was called to debate the issue. Dali had a fever and asore throat; he came to the meeting wearing half a dozen layers of clothing andwith a thermometer in his mouth. As Breton paced the room, listing the reasonsfor his banishment, Dali began to take off and put on his overcoat, jacket, andsweaters, trying to regulate his temperature. It was hard for anyone to payattention to Breton.Finally Dali was asked to respond. "I had painted both Lenin and Hitler onthe basis of dreams," he said, the thermometer in his mouth making him spitmany of his words. "Lenin's anamorphic buttock was not insulting, but the veryproof of my fidelity to surrealism." He continued to put on and take off clothing."All taboos are forbidden, or else a list has to be made of those to be observed,and let Breton formally state that the kingdom of surrealist poetry is nothing buta little domain used for the house arrest of those convicted felons placed undersurveillance by the vice squad or the Communist Party."The members of the circle were perplexed to say the least: Dali had turnedtheir meeting into a kind of surrealist performance, both making fun of thecreative freedom they advocated and claiming it for himself. He had also madethem laugh. A vote to exclude him would only confirm the accusations he hadleveled at them. For the time being, they decided to leave him alone, but in themeeting's aftermath it was clear that the surrealist movement was now more divided than ever.At the end of that year, Dali disappeared to New York. Word came back toParis that he had completely conquered the art world in America, makingsurrealism the hottest movement around. In the years to come, he would actuallyemigrate to the United States, and his face would grace the cover of Timemagazine. From New York his fame spread far, wide, and around the world.Meanwhile the surrealists themselves faded quietly from public view,marginalized by other art movements. In 1939, Breton, disgusted by his lack ofcontrol over Dali, finally expelled the Spanish artist from the group, but by thenit hardly mattered: Dali himself had become synonymous with surrealism, and itwould stay that way long after the surrealist movement had died.InterpretationSalvador Dali was an extremely ambitious man. Although he appeared eccentricto say the least, his diaries show the extent to which he applied strategy to getwhat he wanted. Languishing in Spain early on in his career, he saw theimportance of capturing the Paris art world, the center of the modern-artmovement, if he were to rise to the heights of fame. And if