the field is not based on politics or trickery. It is very real. Butif we are not comfortable with this fact, if we feel in general mistrustful of anykind of authority, we will succumb to the belief that we can just as easily learnsomething on our own, that being self-taught is more authentic. We might justifythis attitude as a sign of our independence, but in fact it stems from basicinsecurity. We feel, perhaps unconsciously, that learning from Masters andsubmitting to their authority is somehow an indictment of our own naturalability. Even if we have teachers in our lives, we tend not to pay full attention totheir advice, often preferring to do things our own way. In fact, we come tobelieve that being critical of Masters or teachers is somehow a sign of our intelligence, and that being a submissive pupil is a sign of weakness.Understand: all that should concern you in the early stages of your career isacquiring practical knowledge in the most efficient manner possible. For thispurpose, during the Apprenticeship Phase you will need mentors whoseauthority you recognize and to whom you submit. Your admission of need doesnot say anything essential about you, but only about your temporary condition ofweakness, which your mentor will help you overcome.The reason you require a mentor is simple: Life is short; you have only somuch time and so much energy to expend. Your most creative years aregenerally in your late twenties and on into your forties. You can learn what youneed through books, your own practice, and occasional advice from others, butthe process is hit-and-miss. The information in books is not tailored to yourcircumstances and individuality; it tends to be somewhat abstract. When you areyoung and have less experience of the world, this abstract knowledge is hard toput into practice. You can learn from your experiences, but it can often takeyears to fully understand the meaning of what has happened. It is alwayspossible to practice on your own, but you will not receive enough focusedfeedback. You can often gain a self-directed apprenticeship in many fields, butthis could take ten years, maybe more.Mentors do not give you a shortcut, but they streamline the process. Theyinvariably had their own great mentors, giving them a richer and deeperknowledge of their field. Their ensuing years of experience taught theminvaluable lessons and strategies for learning. Their knowledge and experiencebecome yours; they can direct you away from unnecessary side paths or errors.They observe you at work and provide real-time feedback, making your practicemore time efficient. Their advice is tailored to your circumstances and yourneeds. Working closely with them, you absorb the essence of their creativespirit, which you can now adapt in your own way. What took you ten years onyour own could have been done in five with proper direction.There is more to this than just time saved. When we learn something in aconcentrated manner it has added value. We experience fewer distractions. Whatwe learn is internalized more deeply because of the intensity of our focus andpractice. Our own