their ideas never stray beyond theconventional and they never become truly creative. Masters manage to blend thetwo—discipline and a childlike spirit—together into what we shall call the Dimensional Mind. Such a mind is not constricted by limited experience orhabits. It can branch out into all directions and make deep contact with reality. Itcan explore more dimensions of the world. The Conventional Mind is passive—it consumes information and regurgitates it in familiar forms. The DimensionalMind is active, transforming everything it digests into something new andoriginal, creating instead of consuming.It is hard to say exactly why Masters are able to retain their childlike spiritwhile accumulating facts and knowledge, when such a feat has been difficult ifnot impossible for so many. Perhaps they found it harder to let go of childhood,or perhaps at some point they intuited the powers they could have by keepingtheir childhood spirit alive and bringing it to bear in their work. In any event,achieving the Dimensional Mind is never easy. Often, the childlike spirit ofMasters lies dormant in the Apprenticeship Phase as they patiently absorb all ofthe details of their field. This spirit then comes back to them as they attain thefreedom and opportunity to actively use the knowledge they have gained. Oftenit is a struggle, and Masters go through a crisis as they deal with the demands ofothers to conform and be more conventional. Under such pressure, they may tryto repress their creative spirit, but often it comes back later with double intensity.Understand: we all possess an inborn creative force that wants to becomeactive. This is the gift of our Original Mind, which reveals such potential. Thehuman mind is naturally creative, constantly looking to make associations andconnections between things and ideas. It wants to explore, to discover newaspects of the world, and to invent. To express this creative force is our greatestdesire, and the stifling of it the source of our misery. What kills the creativeforce is not age or a lack of talent, but our own spirit, our own attitude. Webecome too comfortable with the knowledge we have gained in ourapprenticeships. We grow afraid of entertaining new ideas and the effort that thisrequires. To think more flexibly entails a risk—we could fail and be ridiculed.We prefer to live with familiar ideas and habits of thinking, but we pay a steepprice for this: our minds go dead from the lack of challenge and novelty; wereach a limit in our field and lose control over our fate because we becomereplaceable.What this means, however, is that we equally possess the potential to sparkthis innate creative force back to life, no matter how old we are. Experiencing areturn of this creative force has an immensely therapeutic effect on our spiritsand on our career. By understanding how the Dimensional Mind operates andwhat helps it flourish, we can consciously revive our mental elasticity andreverse the deadening process. The powers that the Dimensional Mind can bring are nearly limitless, and within the reach of almost all of us.Look at the case of Wolfgang Amadeus