Timidity is the root of prudence in the majority of men.... The higher upthe chain of command, the greater is the need for boldness to be supported bya reflective mind, so that boldness does not degenerate into purposelessbursts of blind passion.ON WAR, CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ, 1780-1831 Grant's first move was to appoint his chief lieutenant, General WilliamTecumseh Sherman, to command the Union forces in Georgia. When Shermanarrived on the scene, he realized that any attempt to take Dalton was doomedfrom the start. The Confederate commander, General John Johnston, was amaster at defensive warfare. With mountains to his rear and a solid position tohis front, Johnston could simply stay put. A siege would take too long, and afrontal attack would be too costly. The situation seemed hopeless.Sherman decided, then, that if he could not seize Dalton, he would take holdof Johnston's mind, striking fear in a man notorious for being conservative andcautious. In May 1864, Sherman sent three-fourths of his army into a directattack on Dalton. With Johnston's attention held by this attack, Sherman thensneaked the Army of the Tennessee around the mountains to the town of Resaca,fifteen miles to the south of Dalton, blocking Johnston's only real route of retreatand only supply line. Terrified to find himself suddenly surrounded, Johnstonhad no choice but to give up his position at Dalton. He would not, however, playinto Sherman's hands: he simply retreated to another defensive position that gavehim maximum security, again inviting Sherman to attack him straight on. Thisquickly turned into a dance: Sherman would feint going one way, then wouldsomehow divert a part of his army to the south of Johnston, who kept backingup...all the way to Atlanta.The Confederate president, Jefferson Davis, disgusted by Johnston's refusalto fight, replaced him with General John Hood. Sherman knew that Hood was anaggressive commander, often even reckless. He also knew that neither the timenor the men were available to lay siege to Atlanta--Lincoln needed a quickvictory. His solution was to send detachments to threaten Atlanta's defenses, buthe made these forces temptingly small and weak. Hood could not resist thetemptation to leave his stronghold in the city and move to the attack, only to findhimself rushing into an ambush. This happened several times, and with eachdefeat, Hood's army became smaller and the morale of his men quicklydeteriorated.Now, with Hood's army tired and expecting disaster, Sherman played yetanother trick. At the end of August, he marched his army southeast, past Atlanta,abandoning his supply lines. To Hood this could only mean that Sherman hadgiven up the fight for Atlanta. Wild celebration broke out throughout the city.But Sherman had cunningly timed this march to coincide with the ripening of thecorn, and with his men well fed and Hood unsuspecting, he cut off the finalrailway line still open to Atlanta and wheeled back to attack the unguarded city.Hood was forced to abandon Atlanta. This was the great victory that wouldensure Lincoln's reelection. Next came Sherman's strangest maneuver of all. He divided his army intofour columns and, completely cutting himself loose