484-432 B.C.For some time I have never said what I believed, and never believed what Isaid, and if I do sometimes happen to say what I think, I always hide it amongso many lies that it is hard to recover it.--Niccolo Machiavelli, letter to Francesco Guicciardini (1521)KEYS TO WARFAREFor centuries people have searched for the magic formula that would give themthe power to influence others through words. This search has been mostlyelusive. Words have strange, paradoxical qualities: offer people advice, forinstance, no matter how sound, and you imply that you know more than they do.To the extent that this strikes at their insecurities, your wise words may merelyhave the effect of entrenching them in the very habits you want to change. Onceyour language has gone out into the world, your audience will do what they wantwith it, interpreting it according to their own preconceptions. Often when peopleappear to listen, nod their heads, and seem persuaded, they are actually justtrying to be agreeable--or even just to get rid of you. There are simply too manywords inundating our lives for talk to have any real, long-lasting effect.This does not mean that the search for power through language is futile, onlythat it must be much more strategic and based on knowledge of fundamentalpsychology. What really changes us and our behavior is not the actual wordsuttered by someone else but our own experience, something that comes not from without but from within. An event occurs that shakes us up emotionally, breaksup our usual patterns of looking at the world, and has a lasting impact on us.Something we read or hear from a great teacher makes us question what weknow, causes us to meditate on the issue at hand, and in the process changes howwe think. The ideas are internalized and felt as personal experience. Images froma film penetrate our unconscious, communicating in a preverbal way, andbecome part of our dream life. Only what stirs deep within us, taking root in ourminds as thought and experience, has the power to change what we do in anylasting way.That same day Jesus went out of the house and sat beside the sea. And greatcrowds gathered about him, so that he got into a boat and sat there; and thewhole crowd stood on the beach. And he told them many things in parables,saying: "A sower went out to sow. And as he sowed, some seeds fell along thepath, and the birds came and devoured them. Other seeds fell on rockyground, where they had not much soil, and immediately they sprang up, sincethey had no depth of soil, but when the sun rose they were scorched; andsince they had no root they withered away. Other seeds fell upon thorns, andthe thorns grew up and choked them. Other seeds fell on good soil andbrought forth grain, some a hundred-fold, some sixty, some thirty. He who hasears, let him hear." Then the disciples came and said to him, "Why do youspeak to them in parables?" And he answered them, "To you