, for lies may be told by deeds as well as in words, and this deceit is more dangerous for practical life. clv The Art of getting into a Passion. If possible, oppose vulgar importunity with prudent reﬂection; it will not be diﬃcult for a really prudent man. The ﬁrst step towards getting into a passion is to announce that you are in a passion. By this means you begin the conﬂict with command over your temper, for one has to regulate one's passion to the exact point that is necessary and no further. This is the art of arts in falling into and getting out of a rage. Y ou should know how and when best to come to a stop: it is most diﬃcult to halt while running at the double. It is a great proof of wisdom to remain clear-sighted during paroxysms of rage. Every excess of passion is a digression from rational conduct. But by this masterly policy reason will never be transgressed, nor pass the bounds of its own synteresis. To keep control of passion one must hold ﬁrm the reins of attention: he who can do so will be the ﬁrst man "wise on horseback," and probably the last. clvi Select your Friends. Only after passing the matriculation of experience and the examination of fortune will they be graduates not alone in aﬀection but in discernment. Though this is the most important thing in life, it is the one least cared for. Intelligence brings friends to some, chance to most. Y et a man is judged by his friends, for there was never agreement between wise men and fools. At the same time, to ﬁnd pleasure in a man's society is no proof of near friendship: it may come from the pleasantness of his company more than from trust in his capacity . There are some friendships legitimate, others illicit; the latter for pleasure, the former for their fecundity of ideas and motives. Few are the friends of a man's self, most those of his circumstances. The insight of a true friend is more useful than the goodwill of others: therefore gain them by choice, not by chance. A wise friend wards oﬀ worries, a foolish one brings them about. But do not wish them too much luck, or you may lose them. civil Do not make Mistakes about Character . That is the worst and yet easiest error. Better be cheated in the price than in the quality of goods. In dealing with men, more than with other things, it is necessary to look within. To know men is diﬀerent from knowing things. It is profound philosophy to sound the depths of feeling and distinguish traits of character. Men must be studied as deeply as books. clviii Make use of your Friends. This requires all the art of discretion. Some are good afar oﬀ, some when near. Many are no good at conversation but excellent as correspondents, for distance removes some failings which