similar magic on many of his future politicalfoes.)In Philadelphia, Benjamin Franklin was thought of as the quintessence of thetrustworthy merchant and citizen. Like his fellow townsfolk, he dressed plainly;he worked harder than anyone they knew; he never frequented bars or gamblinghouses; and he had a folksy and even humble manner. His popularity was almostuniversal. But in the last public chapter of his life, he acted in a way that seemedto indicate that he had changed and lost his common touch.In 1776, a year after the outbreak of the War of Independence, BenjaminFranklin—now a distinguished political figure—was dispatched to France as aspecial commissioner to obtain arms, financing and an alliance. Soon storiesspread throughout the colonies of his various intrigues with French women andcourtesans, and of his attendance at lavish parties and dinners—much of whichwas true. Prominent politicians such as John Adams accused him of becomingcorrupted by the Parisians. His popularity among Americans plummeted. Butwhat the critics and public did not realize was that wherever he went he assumedthe look, the outward morals, and the behavior of the culture at hand, so that hecould better make his way. Desperate to win the French over to the Americancause and understanding their nature quite well, he had transformed himself intowhat they had wanted to see in him—the American version of the French spiritand way of life. He was appealing to their notorious narcissism.All of this worked to perfection—Franklin became a beloved figure to theFrench, and a man of influence with their government. In the end, he brokeredan important military alliance and gained the kind of financing nobody elsecould have wrested from the stingy French king. This final public act in his lifewas not an aberration, but the ultimate application of his social rationality.KEYS TO MASTERYYou must allow everyone the right to exist in accordance with the character he has, whateverit turns out to be: and all you should strive to do is to make use of this character in such away as its kind of nature permits, rather than to hope for any alteration in it, or to condemnit offhand for what it is. This is the true sense of the maxim—Live and let live…. To becomeindignant at [people’s] conduct is as foolish as to be angry with a stone because it rolls intoyour path. And with many people the wisest thing you can do, is to resolve to make use ofthose whom you cannot alter. —ARTHUR SCHOPENHAUERWe humans are the preeminent social animal. Hundreds of thousands of yearsago, our primitive ancestors developed complex social groupings. To adapt tothis, they evolved mirror neurons (see introduction, page 7), which were morerefined and sensitive than those of other primates. This meant that they could usethese mirror neurons not only to imitate those around them, but also to imaginewhat others might be thinking and feeling, all on a preverbal level. Suchempathy allowed for a higher degree of cooperation.With the invention of language and the reasoning powers it brought them,our ancestors could take this empathic ability further—seeing patterns