birds warm. (Birdsevolved from reptiles.) But eventually, those existing feathers became adaptedfor the purpose of flying, transforming into wing feathers. For our own primateancestors living in trees, the form of the hand largely evolved out of the need tograsp branches with speed and agility. Our early hominid ancestors, walking onthe ground, found this intricately developed hand quite useful for manipulatingrocks, making tools, and gesturing in communication. Perhaps language itselfdeveloped as a strictly social tool and became hijacked as a means of reasoning,making human consciousness itself the product of an accident.Human creativity generally follows a similar path, perhaps indicating a kindof organic fatality to the creation of anything. Ideas do not come to us out ofnowhere. Instead, we come upon something by accident—in the case of Graham,a radio announcement that he hears, or questions from the audience after alecture. If we are experienced enough and the moment is ripe, this accidentalencounter will spark some interesting associations and ideas in us. In looking atthe particular materials we can work with, we suddenly see another way to usethem. All along the way, contingencies pop up that reveal different paths we cantake, and if they are promising, we follow them, not sure of where they will lead.Instead of a straight-line development from idea to fruition, the creative processis more like the crooked branching of a tree.The lesson is simple—what constitutes true creativity is the openness andadaptability of our spirit. When we see or experience something we must be ableto look at it from several angles, to see other possibilities beyond the obviousones. We imagine that the objects around us can be used and co-opted fordifferent purposes. We do not hold on to our original idea out of sheerstubbornness, or because our ego is tied up with its rightness. Instead, we movewith what presents itself to us in the moment, exploring and exploiting differentbranches and contingencies. We thus manage to turn feathers into flyingmaterial. The difference then is not in some initial creative power of the brain,but in how we look at the world and the fluidity with which we can reframe whatwe see. Creativity and adaptability are inseparable.8. Dimensional ThinkingIn 1798 Napoleon Bonaparte invaded Egypt in an attempt to transform it into acolony, but the invasion bogged down as the British, seeking to block theFrench, became involved. A year later, as the war dragged on, a soldier workingon the reinforcement of a French fort near the town of Rosetta dug into theground and hit a rock. In extracting the rock, he discovered that it was some kindof relic from ancient Egypt—a slab of basalt covered in writing. Napoleon had of relic from ancient Egypt—a slab of basalt covered in writing. Napoleon hadbeen motivated to invade Egypt partially by his intense curiosity for all thingsEgyptian, and had taken along with his troops French scientists and historians tohelp analyze the relics he hoped to find.In looking at the slab of basalt, which came to be known as the Rosettastone, the French savants grew excited. It contained