public, on the other hand,your reputation takes a blow, or worse: the punishments for spying are severe.You must use deception with utmost caution, then, employing the least amountof people as possible, to avoid the inevitable leaks. You should always leaveyourself an escape route, a cover story to protect you should you be exposed. Becareful not to fall in love with the power that deception brings; the use of it mustalways be subordinate to your overall strategy and kept under control. If youbecome known as a deceiver, try being straightforward and honest for a change.That will confuse people--because they won't know how to read you, your honesty will become a higher form of deception. TAKE THE LINE OF LEAST EXPECTATIONTHE ORDINARY-EXTRAORDINARY STRATEGYPeople expect your behavior to conform to known patterns and conventions.Your task as a strategist is to upset their expectations. Surprise them and chaosand unpredictability--which they try desperately to keep at bay--enter theirworld, and in the ensuing mental disturbance, their defenses are down and theyare vulnerable. First, do something ordinary and conventional to fix their imageof you, then hit them with the extraordinary. The terror is greater for being sosudden. Never rely on an unorthodox strategy that worked before--it isconventional the second time around. Sometimes the ordinary is extraordinarybecause it is unexpected.UNCONVENTIONAL WARFAREThousands of years ago, military leaders--aware of the incredibly high stakesinvolved in war--would search high and low for anything that could bring theirarmy an advantage on the battlefield. Some generals who were particularlyclever would devise novel troop formations or an innovative use of infantry orcavalry: the newness of the tactic would prevent the enemy from anticipating it.Being unexpected, it would create confusion in the enemy. An army that gainedthe advantage of surprise in this way could often leverage it into victory on thebattlefield and perhaps a string of victories.The enemy, however, would work hard to come up with a defense againstthe new strategy, whatever it was, and would often find one quite fast. So whatonce brought brilliant success and was the epitome of innovation soon no longerworked and in fact became conventional. Furthermore, in the process of workingout a defense against a novel strategy, the enemy itself would often be forced toinnovate; now it was their turn to introduce something surprising and horriblyeffective. And so the cycle would go on. War has always been ruthless; nothingstays unconventional for long. It is either innovate or die.In the eighteenth century, nothing was more startling than the tactics of thePrussian king Frederick the Great. To top Frederick's success, French militarytheorists devised radical new ideas that were finally tested on the battlefield by Napoleon. In 1806, Napoleon crushed the Prussians--who were still using theonce unconventional tactics of Frederick the Great, now grown stale--at theBattle of Jena-Auerstadt. The Prussians were humiliated by their defeat; now itwas up to them to innovate. They studied in depth Napoleon's success, adaptedhis best strategies, and took them further, creating the seeds for the formation ofthe German General Staff. This new Prussian army played a large role in