He hated the conventionallife of a lawyer, and he hated all of the conventions that seemed to dominatesocial life and to disconnect people from nature. He entertained deeply rebelliousthoughts, which he channeled into an epistolary novel—The Sorrows of YoungWerther. Although the story was loosely based on people he knew and on ayoung friend who had committed suicide over a failed romance, most of theideas in it came from his experiences. The novel promoted the superiority of theemotions, and advocated a return to a life of sensation and to living closer tonature. It was the precursor of the movement that would come to be knownthroughout Europe as Romanticism, and it created a powerful reaction inGermany and beyond. Overnight, young Goethe became a celebrity. Almosteveryone read the book. Hundreds of young people committed suicide inimitation of the despairing Werther.For Goethe, this success surprised and baffled him. Suddenly, he washobnobbing with the most famous writers of his time. Slowly, the daemon rearedits ugly head. He gave himself up to a life of wine, women, and parties. Hismoods began to swing wildly back and forth. He felt a rising disgust—at himselfand the world he was frequenting. The circle of writers and intellectuals whodominated his social life annoyed him to no end. They were so smug, and theirworld was as disconnected from reality and nature as that of lawyers. He feltincreasingly constricted by his reputation as a sensational writer.In 1775, a year after the publication of Werther, he received an invitationfrom the duke of Weimar to stay in his duchy and serve as a personal adviser andminister. The duke was a great admirer of his writing, and was trying to recruitmore artists to his rather dull court. For Goethe, however, this was theopportunity he was waiting for. He could say good-bye to the literary world andbury himself in Weimar. He could pour his energies into political work and into science, taming that damnable inner daemon. He accepted the invitation, andexcept for one later trip to Italy, he would spend the rest of his life in Weimar.In Weimar Goethe had the idea of trying to modernize the local government,but he quickly realized that the duke was weak and undisciplined and that anyattempt at reforming the duchy was doomed. There was too much corruption.And so slowly he poured his energies into his new passion in life, the sciences.He focused on geology, botany, and anatomy. His years of writing poetry andnovels were over. He began to collect a large amount of stones, plants, andbones that he could study in his house at all hours. And as he looked deeply intothese sciences, he began to see strange connections between them. In geology,changes in the earth occur with great slowness, over immensely long periods oftime, too slowly to be observed in the span of a single lifetime. Plants are in acontinual state of metamorphosis, from the most primitive beginnings of the seedto the flower or tree. All life on the planet is in an ever-present state ofdevelopment, one life form