him to keep hisforces dispersed--perhaps the decisive factor in the success of the invasion.In a competitive world, deception is a vital weapon that can give you aconstant advantage. You can use it to distract your opponents, send them ongoose chases, waste valuable time and resources in defending attacks that nevercome. But more than likely your concept of deception is wrong. It does not entailelaborate illusions or all sorts of showy distractions. People are too sophisticatedto fall for such things. Deception should mirror reality. It can be elaborate, as theBritish deception around D-Day was, but the effect should be of reality onlysubtly, slightly altered, not completely transformed.To mirror reality you must understand its nature. Above all, reality issubjective: we filter events through our emotions and preconceptions, seeingwhat we want to see. Your false mirror must conform to people's desires andexpectations, lulling them to sleep. (If the Allies had wanted to attack the Pas de Calais, as Hitler suspected, and tried to convince Hitler the attack was coming toNormandy, that would have been a great deal harder than playing on hispreexisting belief.) Your false mirror must incorporate things that are visiblytrue. It must seem somewhat banal, like life itself. It can have contradictoryelements, as the D-Day deception did; reality is often contradictory. In the end,like an Escher painting, you must blend truth and illusion to the point where theybecome indistinguishable, and your false mirror is taken for reality.What we wish, we readily believe, and what we ourselves think, we imagineothers think also.--Julius Caesar (100-44 B.C.)KEYS TO WARFAREIn the early history of warfare, military leaders were faced with the followingpredicament: The success of any war effort depended on the ability to know asmuch about the other side--its intentions, its strengths and weaknesses--aspossible. But the enemy would never willingly disclose this information. Inaddition, the enemy often came from an alien culture, with its peculiar ways ofthinking and behaving. A general could not really know what was going on inthe mind of the opposing general. From the outside the enemy representedsomething of an impenetrable mystery. And yet, lacking some understanding ofthe other side, a general would be operating in the dark.The only solution was to scrutinize the enemy for outward signs of what wasgoing on within. A strategist might count the cooking fires in the enemy camp,for example, and the changes in that number over time; that would show thearmy's size and whether it was increasing as reserves arrived or decreasing as itwas split, or perhaps as soldiers deserted. To see where the army was heading, orwhether it was readying for battle, he would look for signs of movement orchanges in its formation. He would try to get agents and spies to report on itsactivities from within. A leader who picked up enough of these signs anddeciphered them correctly could piece together a reasonably clear picture.The leader also knew that just as he was watching the other side, the otherside was doing the same with him. In pondering this back-and-forth game ofreading appearances, certain enlightened