his failures, he had never given up. This must meansomething—perhaps a destiny of sorts. All of his failures had a purpose, hedecided, if he knew how to exploit them. His time had not been wasted.What he needed to do was to put all of this knowledge to work. This meantreturning to the novel that had continually eluded him. What it would be about—the plot, the narrator’s voice—he still had no idea. The material was all there inhis head. If in his loneliness he could not bring back his mother or his childhoodor his youth, he would somehow re-create these things in their entirety, here inthe study of his apartment where he now holed himself up. What mattered was toget to work. Something would come of it.In the fall of 1908 he purchased dozens of notebooks, the kind he used to usein school, and began to fill them with notes. He wrote essays on aesthetics,sketches of characters, childhood memories that he strained to recall. And as hewent deep into this process, he felt a change within himself. Something clicked.He did not know where it came from, but a voice emerged, his own voice, whichwould be that of the narrator himself. The story would revolve around a youngman who becomes too neurotically attached to his mother and cannot forge hisown identity. He discovers that he wants to be a writer, but he cannot figure outwhat he should write about. As he grows up, he starts to explore the two socialrealms of bohemia and landed aristocracy. He dissects the various people he meets, uncovering the essence of their characters that lies underneath theirsuperficial social personalities. He has several failed love affairs in which hesuffers the extremes of jealousy. After numerous adventures and a creepingsense of failure as he advances in life, at the very end of the novel he discoverswhat he wants to write—it will be the book that we have just been reading.The novel would be called In Search of Lost Time, and in the end it wouldrecount much of Proust’s own life, all of the various characters he knewdisguised under different names. In the course of the narration he would coverthe entire history of France from the moment he was born to the present,whatever the present was. It would be a portrait of society as a whole; he wouldbe the entomologist uncovering the laws that governed the behavior of all theinhabitants of the anthill. His only concern now was his health. The task aheadof him was immense. Would he live long enough to complete it?Over the course of several years, he finished the first part of the book, knownas Swann’s Way. It was published in 1913, and the reviews were extremelypositive. No one had ever read a novel quite like it. It seemed that Proust hadcreated his own genre—part novel, part essay. But as he was making plans forthe final half of the book, war broke out across Europe and the publishingbusiness essentially ground to a halt. Proust continued working on