series ofvirtually unoccupied islands known as the Galápagos. The islands were famousfor their wildlife, but nothing could prepare Darwin for what he would findthere. Captain FitzRoy gave him one week to explore one of the islands, and then they would be on their way. From the moment he stepped on the island,Darwin realized something was different: this small speck of land was crammedwith life that was not like anywhere else—thousands of black marine iguanasswarming around him, on the beach and in the shallow water; 500-poundtortoises lumbering about the shore; seals, penguins, and flightless cormorants,all cold-water creatures, inhabiting a tropical island.By the end of the week, he had counted twenty-six unique species of landbirds on this one island alone. His jars began to fill up with the most bizarreplants, snakes, lizards, fish, and insects. Back on board the Beagle, he began tocatalog and categorize the remarkable number of specimens he had collected. Hewas struck by the fact that almost all of them represented completely newspecies. He then made an even more remarkable discovery: the species differedfrom island to island, even though they were only some fifty miles apart. Thetortoise shells had different markings, and the finches had developed differenttypes of beaks, each designed for a specific kind of food on their particularisland.Suddenly, as if the four years of this voyage and all of his observations haddistilled in him a deeper way of thinking, a radical theory took shape in hismind: These islands, he speculated, had first been pushed up out of the water byvolcanic eruptions, much like the Andes. In the beginning, there was no life tobe found on them. Slowly, birds visited and deposited seeds. Various animalsarrived by sea—lizards or insects floating on logs; tortoises, originally of amarine variety, swam over. Over thousands of years, each creature adapted tothe food and predators that were found there, changing their shape andappearance in the process. Animals that failed to adapt died out, like the fossilsof those giant creatures Darwin had unearthed in Argentina. It was a ruthlessstruggle for survival. Life was not created on these islands at one time and forgood by some divine being. The creatures here had ever so slowly evolved totheir present form. And these islands represented a microcosm of the planetitself.On the journey home Darwin began to develop this theory further, sorevolutionary in its implications. To prove his theory would now be his life’swork.Finally, in October 1836, the Beagle returned to England after nearly fiveyears at sea. Darwin hurried home, and when his father first saw him he wasastonished. Physically, he had changed. His head seemed larger. His wholemanner was different—a seriousness of purpose and sharpness could be read inhis eyes, almost the opposite look of the lost young man who had gone to sea years before. Clearly, the voyage had transformed his son in body and spirit.KEYS TO MASTERYOne can have no smaller or greater mastery than mastery of oneself.—LEONARDO DA VINCIIn the stories of the greatest Masters, past and present, we can inevitably detect aphase in