began to swing his sword toloosen up. Bokuden continued to sit with his eyes closed. As they approachedthe island, the impatient challenger shouted, "Come! You are as good as dead. Iwill show you how sharp my sword is!" He then leaped onto the shore.Bokuden took his time, further infuriating the young samurai, who began tohurl insults. Bokuden finally handed the ferryman his swords, saying, "My styleis Mutekatsu-ryu. I have no need for a sword"--and with those words he took theferryman's long oar and pushed it hard against the shore, sending the boatquickly out into the water and away from the island. The samurai screamed,demanding the boat's return. Bokuden shouted back to him, "This is what iscalled victory without fighting. I dare you to jump into the water and swimhere!"Now the passengers on the boat could look back at the young samuraireceding into the distance, stranded on the island, jumping up and down, flailinghis arms as his cries became fainter and fainter. They began to laugh: Bokudenhad clearly demonstrated Mutekatsu-ryu.InterpretationThe minute Bokuden heard the arrogant young samurai's voice, he knew therewould be trouble. A duel on a crowded boat would be a disaster, and a totallyunnecessary one; he had to get the young man off the boat without a fight, and tomake the defeat humiliating. He would do this through maneuver. First, heremained still and quiet, drawing the man's attention away from the innocentpassengers and drawing him toward Bokuden like a magnet. Then he confusedthe man with a rather irrational name for a school of fighting, overheating thesamurai's rather simple mind with a perplexing concept. The flustered samuraitried to cover up with bluster. He was now so angry and mentally off balancethat he leaped to the shore alone, failing to consider the rather obvious meaningof Mutekatsu-ryu even once he got there. Bokuden was a samurai who alwaysdepended on setting up his opponents first and winning the victory easily, bymaneuver rather than brute force. This was the ultimate demonstration of his art.The goal of maneuver is to give you easy victories, which you do by luringopponents into leaving their fortified positions of strength for unfamiliar terrainwhere they must fight off balance. Since your opponents' strength is inseparable from their ability to think straight, your maneuvers must be designed to makethem emotional and befuddled. If you are too direct in this maneuvering, you runthe risk of revealing your game; you must be subtle, drawing opponents towardyou with enigmatic behavior, slowly getting under their skin with provocativecomments and actions, then suddenly stepping back. When you feel that theiremotions are engaged, that their frustration and anger are mounting, you canspeed up the tempo of your maneuvers. Properly set up, your opponents will leaponto the island and strand themselves, giving you the easy victory.NO. 71. THE VICTORY IN THE MIDST OF A HUNDRED ENEMIESTo priest Yozan, the 28th teacher at Enkakuji, came for an interview asamurai named Ryozan, who practised Zen. The teacher said: "You are goinginto the bath-tub, stark naked without a stitch on. Now