some whose loyalty was dubious. Throughout the expedition, wheneverany of Cortes's soldiers did something he saw as suspicious, he never got angryor accusatory. Instead he pretended to go along with them, accepting andapproving what they had done. Thinking Cortes weak, or thinking he was ontheir side, they would take another step. Now he had what he wanted: a clearsign, to himself and others, that they were traitors. Now he could isolate anddestroy them. Adopt the method of Cortes: if friends or followers whom yoususpect of ulterior motives suggest something subtly hostile, or against yourinterests, or simply odd, avoid the temptation to react, to say no, to get angry, oreven to ask questions. Go along, or seem to turn a blind eye: your enemies willsoon go further, showing more of their hand. Now you have them in sight, andyou can attack.An enemy is often large and hard to pinpoint--an organization, or a personhidden behind some complicated network. What you want to do is take aim atone part of the group--a leader, a spokesman, a key member of the inner circle.That is how the activist Saul Alinsky tackled corporations and bureaucracies. Inhis 1960s campaign to desegregate Chicago's public-school system, he focusedon the superintendent of schools, knowing full well that this man would try toshift the blame upward. By taking repeated hits at the superintendent, he wasable to publicize his struggle, and it became impossible for the man to hide.Eventually those behind him had to come to his aid, exposing themselves in theprocess. Like Alinsky, never aim at a vague, abstract enemy. It is hard to drumup the emotions to fight such a bloodless battle, which in any case leaves yourenemy invisible. Personalize the fight, eyeball to eyeball.Danger is everywhere. There are always hostile people and destructiverelationships. The only way to break out of a negative dynamic is to confront it.Repressing your anger, avoiding the person threatening you, always looking toconciliate--these common strategies spell ruin. Avoidance of conflict becomes ahabit, and you lose the taste for battle. Feeling guilty is pointless; it is not yourfault you have enemies. Feeling wronged or victimized is equally futile. In bothcases you are looking inward, concentrating on yourself and your feelings.Instead of internalizing a bad situation, externalize it and face your enemy. It isthe only way out. The frequent hearing of my mistress reading the bible--for she often readaloud when her husband was absent--soon awakened my curiosity in respectto this mystery of reading, and roused in me the desire to learn. Having nofear of my kind mistress before my eyes, (she had given me no reason to fear,)I frankly asked her to teach me to read; and without hesitation, the dearwoman began the task, and very soon, by her assistance, I was master of thealphabet, and could spell words of three or four letters...Master Hugh wasamazed at the simplicity of his spouse, and, probably for the first time, heunfolded to her the true philosophy of slavery, and the peculiar rulesnecessary to be observed by masters and mistresses,