advantage: you just let the enemy give up, for the fight is nolonger worth the aggravation. The latter way is the better one. It costs you less inresources, and it looks better: the enemy has fallen on his own sword. But even aguerrilla campaign cannot go on forever; at a certain point time starts to workagainst you as well. If the ending is taking too long, you must go on theoffensive and finish the enemy off. In the Vietnam War, the North Vietnamesedrew out the war to a point where it was also costing them too much. That waswhy they launched the Tet Offensive in 1968--to greatly accelerate thedeterioration of the U.S. war effort.The essence of guerrilla warfare is fluidity. The enemy will always try toadjust to what you are doing, attempting to find its feet in this unfamiliar terrain.You must be prepared to change and adopt whatever is contrary to expectation:this might mean occasionally fighting in a conventional manner, concentratingyour army to attack here or there, then dispersing again. Your goal is maximumdisorder and unfamiliarity. Remember: this war is psychological. It is more onthe level of strategy than anything else that you give the enemy nothing to holdon to, nothing tangible to counter. It is the enemies' minds that are grasping at air and their minds that fall first. Authority: Anything that has form can be overcome; anything that takesshape can be countered. This is why sages conceal their forms innothingness and let their minds soar in the void.--Huainanzi (second century B.C.)REVERSALA guerrilla strategy is extremely hard to counter, which is what makes it soeffective. If you find yourself in a fight with guerrillas and you use conventionalmethods to fight them, you play into their hands; winning battles and takingterritory means nothing in this kind of war. The only effective counterstrategy isto reverse the guerrillas' reversal, neutralizing their advantages. You must refusethem the freedom of time and space they need for their mayhem. You must workto isolate them--physically, politically, and morally. Above all, you must neverrespond in a graduated manner, by stepping up your forces bit by bit, as theUnited States did in the Vietnam War. You need a quick, decisive victory oversuch an opponent. If this seems impossible, it is better to pull out while you canthan to sink into the protracted war the guerrilla fighter is trying to lure you into. SEEM TO WORK FOR THE INTERESTS OFOTHERS WHILE FURTHERING YOUR OWNTHE ALLIANCE STRATEGYThe best way to advance your cause with the minimum of effort and bloodshed isto create a constantly shifting network of alliances, getting others to compensatefor your deficiencies, do your dirty work, fight your wars, spend energy pullingyou forward. The art is in choosing those allies who fit the needs of the momentand fill the gaps in your power. Give them gifts, offer them friendship, help themin time of need--all to blind them to reality and put them under subtle obligationto you. At the same time, work to sow dissension in the alliances of