to begin their campaignswith a battle whose only purpose was to test their opponent's strength andresolve. They would never deal with an enemy until they had gauged his morale.This set-up battle also had the benefit of revealing something of his strategy andthought.The quality of the information you gather on your enemies is more importantthan the quantity. A single but crucial nugget can be the key to their destruction.When the Carthaginian general Hannibal saw that the Roman general he wasfacing was arrogant and hot-tempered, he would deliberately play weak, luringthe man into a rash attack. Once Churchill saw that Hitler had a paranoid streak,becoming irrational at the merest hint of vulnerability, the British prime ministerknew how to unhinge the German fuhrer: by feigning to attack some marginalarea like the Balkans, he could make him see threats on all sides and spread outhis defenses, a critical military mistake.In 1988, Lee Atwater was a political strategist on the team of the seniorGeorge Bush, who was then in the race to become that year's Republicanpresidential nominee. Discovering that Bush's main rival, Senator Robert Dole,had a terrible temper that his aides had to struggle to control, Atwater devisedendless stratagems to push Dole's buttons. Not only did an upset Dole lookunpresidential to the American public, but an emotional and angry man rarely thinks straight. A disturbed mind is one you can control and unbalance at will.There are, of course, limits to how much intelligence gathering you canachieve by firsthand observation. A network of spies will extend your vision,particularly as you learn to interpret the information they bring you. An informalnetwork is the best--a group of allies recruited over time to be your eyes andears. Try to make friends with people at or near the source of information onyour rival; one well-placed friend will yield far more than will a handful of paidspies. In Napoleon's time his intelligence network was second to none, but hisbest information came from friends whom he had carefully positioned indiplomatic circles around Europe.Always look for internal spies, people in the enemy camp who aredissatisfied and have an ax to grind. Turn them to your purposes and they willgive you better information than any infiltrator you sneak in from outside. Hirepeople the enemy has fired--they will tell you how the enemy thinks. PresidentBill Clinton got his best intelligence on the Republicans from his adviser DickMorris, who had worked for them for years and knew their weaknesses, bothpersonal and organizational. A warning: never rely on one spy, one source ofinformation, no matter how good. You risk being played or getting slanted, one-sided information.Many people leave a paper trail of writings, interviews, and so on that is asrevealing as anything you can learn from a spy. Well before World War II, AdolfHitler's book Mein Kampf supplied a blueprint of his thinking and intentions, notto mention endless clues to his psychology. His generals Erwin Rommel andHeinz Guderian also wrote about the new kind of blitzkrieg warfare they werepreparing. People reveal a lot about themselves in their