to and get angry.Don't worry--just make sure you have disguised your aggression enough that youcan deny it exists. Do it right and they will feel guilty for accusing you. Passiveaggression is a popular strategy; you must learn how to defend yourself againstthe vast legions of passive-aggressive warriors who will assail you in your dailylife.Gandhi and his associates repeatedly deplored the inability of their people togive organized, effective, violent resistance against injustice and tyranny. Hisown experience was corroborated by an unbroken series of reiterations fromall the leaders of India--that India could not practice physical warfareagainst her enemies. Many reasons were given, including weakness, lack ofarms, having been beaten into submission, and other arguments of a similarnature....... Confronted with the issue of what means he could employ againstthe British, we come to the other criteria previously mentioned; that the kindof means selected and how they can be used is significantly dependent uponthe face of the enemy, or the character of his opposition. Gandhi's oppositionnot only made the effective use of passive resistance possible but practicallyinvited it. His enemy was a British administration characterized by an old,aristocratic, liberal tradition, one which granted a good deal of freedom to itscolonials and which always had operated on a pattern of using, absorbing,seducing, or destroying, through flattery or corruption, the revolutionaryleaders who arose from the colonial ranks. This was the kind of oppositionthat would have tolerated and ultimately capitulated before the tactic ofpassive resistance. RULES FOR RADICALS, SAUL D. ALINSKY, 1971THE GUILT WEAPONIn December 1929 the group of Englishmen who governed India were feeling alittle nervous. The Indian National Congress--the country's main independencemovement--had just broken off talks over the proposal that Britain wouldgradually return autonomous rule to the subcontinent. Instead the Congress wasnow calling for nothing less than immediate and total independence, and it hadasked Mahatma Gandhi to lead a civil-disobedience campaign to initiate thisstruggle. Gandhi, who had studied law in London years before, had invented aform of passive-resistant protest in 1906, while working as a barrister in SouthAfrica. In India in the early 1920s, he had led civil-disobedience campaignsagainst the British that had created quite a stir, had landed him in prison, and hadmade him the most revered man in the country. For the British, dealing with himwas never easy; despite his frail appearance, he was uncompromising andrelentless.Although Gandhi believed in and practiced a rigorous form of nonviolence,the colonial officers of the British Raj were fearful: at a time when the Englisheconomy was weak, they imagined him organizing a boycott of British goods,not to mention mass demonstrations in the streets of India's cities, a policenightmare.The man in charge of the Raj's strategy in combating the independencemovement was the viceroy of India, Lord Edward Irwin. Although Irwinadmired Gandhi personally, he had decided to respond to him rapidly and withforce--he could not let the situation get out of hand. He waited anxiously to seewhat Gandhi would do. The weeks went by, and finally, on March 2, Irwinreceived a letter from Gandhi--rather touching in its honesty--that revealed thedetails