youngman just starting out on what would be an illustrious career. Crawfordrecognized his talent immediately and went out of her way to befriend him,much to his amazement. He went on to write nine screenplays for her, greatlylengthening her career.Crawford would also court cameramen and photographers, who would thenwork overtime to light her well and make her look good. She might do the samewith a producer who controlled a screenplay with a role in it she coveted.Crawford would often make alliances with up-and-coming young talent whovalued a relationship with the star. Then she would gracefully break or forget theconnection when it no longer served her needs. Nor would she stay loyal to thestudio, or indeed to anyone--only to herself. Her unsentimental approach to herown shifting network of alliances allowed her to avoid the trap that mostactresses found embedded in the system.The key to playing the game is to recognize who can best advance yourinterests at that moment. This need not be the most obviously powerful personon the scene, the person who seems to be able to do most for you; alliances thatmeet specific needs or answer particular deficiencies are often more useful.(Grand alliances between two great powers are generally the least effective.)Because Louis XI had a weak army, the Swiss, though minor players on theEuropean scene, were the allies he needed. Recognizing this years in advance, hecultivated an alliance that bewildered his enemies. As an ambitious youngcongressional assistant in Washington, Lyndon Johnson realized he lacked allkinds of powers and talents to get him to the top. He became a clever user of other people's talents. Realizing the importance of information in Congress, hemade a point of befriending and allying himself with those at key positions--whether high or low--in the information chain. He was particularly good witholder men who enjoyed the company of a lively young man and the role of thefather figure giving advice. Slowly, from being a poor kid from Texas with noconnections, Johnson raised himself to the top, through his network ofconvenient alliances.It is a common strategy in bicycle races not to go out in front but to stayright behind the leader, a position that cuts down wind resistance--the leaderfaces the wind for you and saves you energy. At the last minute, you sprintahead. Letting other people cut resistance for you and waste their energy on yourbehalf is the height of economy and strategy.One of the best stratagems in the Alliance Game is to begin by seeming tohelp another person in some cause or fight, only for the purpose of furtheringyour own interests in the end. It is easy to find such people: they have a glaringneed, a temporary weakness that you can help them to overcome. Now you haveput them under a subtle obligation to you, to use as you will--to dominate theiraffairs, to divert their energies in the direction you desire. The emotions youcreate with your offer of help will blind the other person to your ulterior purpose.The artist Salvador Dali was particularly adept at this version