their eyes and ask the simple question of what it is theyneed most. Keeping their self-interest involved will only enhance any emotionalconnection they feel toward you.If you work on yourself first, as Faraday did, developing a solid work ethicand organizational skills, eventually the right teacher will appear in your life.Word will spread through the proper channels of your efficiency and yourhunger to learn, and opportunities will come your way. In any event, you shouldnot feel timid in approaching Masters, no matter how elevated their position.You will be frequently surprised at how open they can be to serving as a mentor,if the fit is right and you have something to offer. The ability to transfer theirexperience and knowledge to someone younger often provides them with a greatpleasure, akin to parenting.The best mentors are often those who have wide knowledge and experience,and are not overly specialized in their field—they can train you to think on ahigher level, and to make connections between different forms of knowledge.The paradigm for this is the Aristotle–Alexander the Great relationship. Philip II,Alexander’s father and king of Macedonia, chose Aristotle to mentor histhirteen-year-old son because the philosopher had learned and mastered so manydifferent fields. He could thus impart to Alexander an overall love of learning,and teach him how to think and reason in any kind of situation—the greatestskill of all. This ended up working to perfection. Alexander was able toeffectively apply the reasoning skills he had gained from Aristotle to politics andwarfare. To the end of his life he maintained an intense curiosity for any field ofknowledge, and would always gather about him experts he could learn from.Aristotle had imparted a form of wisdom that played a key role in Alexander’ssuccess.You will want as much personal interaction with the mentor as possible. Avirtual relationship is never enough. There are cues and subtle aspects you canonly pick up through a person-to-person interaction—such as a way of doingthings that has evolved through much experience. These patterns of action arehard to put into words, and can only be absorbed through much personal exposure. In crafts or in sports this is more obvious. Tennis instructors, forexample, can only reveal many secrets of their skills by demonstrating thingsbefore their pupils’ eyes. Instructors may not in fact be completely conscious ofwhat makes their backhand so effective, but in watching them in action pupilscan pick up the pattern and motion, exploiting the power of mirror neurons. Butthis process of absorption is also relevant to nonmanual skills. It was onlythrough constant exposure to Davy’s thought process that Faraday understoodthe power of finding the crucial experiment to demonstrate an idea, somethinghe would adapt later on with great success.As the relationship progresses you can make this absorption process moreconscious and direct, questioning them about the principles underlying their wayof doing things. If you are clever, you can be a kind of midwife, getting them toanalyze their own creativity for you, and mining all kinds of rich ideas in theprocess. They are often grateful for the opportunity to reveal