out-and-out crazy person.Remember: your madness, like Hamlet's, must be strategic. Real madness is alltoo predictable. 5. In April 1917, New York's Society of Independent Artists prepared for its firstexhibition. This was to be a grand showcase of modern art, the largest in theUnited States to date. The exhibition was open to any artist who had joined thesociety (whose dues were minimal), and the response had been overwhelming,with over twelve hundred artists contributing over two thousand pieces.A similar vision among the Siouan tribes turns the warrior into a Heyoka,who also exhibits the clown-like behavior of the Windigokan, the use ofsacking as a war shirt, and plastering the body with mud....... Psychologicallythe Heyoka was of immense importance, as were similar characters amongnumerous other tribes. During periods of happiness and plenty he saw onlygloom and despair, and could be goaded into providing hours of harmlessamusement when he gorged himself on buffalo ribs while complaining therewas no food in the camp, or declared he was dirty and proceeded to wash in abath of mud....... Yet behind this benign face of the Heyoka there lurked theever-present fear that he was possessed by the spirit of Iktomi, and wastherefore unpredictable and potentially dangerous. He, after all, was the onlyperson who dared challenge the super-naturals even if he was in dread of acommon camp dog and would run screaming in fright if one approached tooclose. Thus he made a mockery of the pretensions of some of the warriors, butat the same time emphasized the fact that the powers which guided andprotected them in battle were of such strength that only a Heyoka mightoppose them.WARRIORS: WARFARE AND THE NATIVE AMERICAN INDIAN,NORMAN BANCROFT HUNT, 1995The society's board of directors included collectors like Walter Arensbergand artists like Man Ray and the twenty-nine-year-old Marcel Duchamp, aFrenchman then living in New York. It was Duchamp, as head of the HangingCommittee, who decided to make the exhibition radically democratic: he hungthe works in alphabetical order, beginning with a letter drawn from a hat. Thesystem led to cubist still lifes being hung next to traditional landscapes, amateur photographs, and the occasional lewd work by someone apparently insane. Someof the organizers loved this plan, others were disgusted and quit.A few days before the exhibition was to open, the society received thestrangest work so far: a urinal mounted on its back, with the words R. MUTT1917 painted in large black letters on its rim. The work was called Fountain, andit was apparently submitted by a Mr. Mutt, along with the requisite membershipfee. In viewing the piece for the first time, the painter George Bellows, amember of the society's board, claimed it was indecent and that the society couldnot exhibit it. Arensberg disagreed: he said he could discern an interesting workof art in its shape and presentation. "This is what the whole exhibit is about," hetold Bellows. "An opportunity to allow the artist to send in anything he chooses,for the artist to decide what is art, not someone else."Bellows was unmoved. Hours before the exhibition opened, the