States in the Vietnam War, GeneralVo Nguyen Giap determined that the real center of gravity in the Americandemocracy was the political support of its citizens. Given that support--the kindof support the military had had during World War II--the country could prosecutea war with the utmost effectiveness. Without that support, though, the effort wasdoomed. Through the Tet Offensive of 1968, Giap was able to undermine theAmerican public's support for the war. He had gained an understanding ofAmerican culture that allowed him to aim at the right target.The more centralized the enemy, the more devastating becomes a blow at itsleader or governing body. Hernan Cortes was able to conquer Mexico with ahandful of soldiers by capturing Moctezuma, the Aztec emperor. Moctezumawas the center around which everything revolved; without him Aztec culturequickly collapsed. When Napoleon invaded Russia in 1812, he assumed that bytaking Moscow, the capital, he could force the Russians to surrender. But the truecenter of gravity in this authoritarian nation was the czar, who was determined tocontinue the war. The loss of Moscow only steeled his resolve.A more decentralized enemy will have several separate centers of gravity.The key here is to disorganize them by cutting off communication between them.That was what General Douglas MacArthur did in his remarkable campaign inthe Pacific during World War II: he skipped some islands but took key ones,keeping the Japanese extended over a vast area and making it impossible forthem to communicate with each other. It is almost always strategically wise todisrupt your enemy's lines of communication; if the parts cannot communicatewith the whole, chaos ensues.Your enemy's center of gravity can be something abstract, like a quality,concept, or aptitude on which he depends: his reputation, his capacity to deceive,his unpredictability. But such strengths become critical vulnerabilities if you canmake them unattractive or unusable. In fighting the Scythians in what is nowmodern-day Iran, a tribe that no one could figure out how to defeat, Alexanderthe Great saw the center of gravity as their complete mobility on horseback andtheir fluid, almost chaotic style of fighting. He simply plotted to neutralize thesource of this power by luring them on to enclosed ground in which they couldnot use their cavalry and pell-mell tactics. He defeated them with ease.To find an enemy's center of gravity, you have to erase your own tendency tothink in conventional terms or to assume that the other side's center is the sameas your own. When Salvador Dali came to the United States in 1940, intent onconquering the country as an artist and making his fortune, he made a clevercalculation. In the European art world, an artist had to win over the critics and make a name as "serious." In America, though, that kind of fame would doom anartist to a ghetto, a limited circle. The real center of gravity was the Americanmedia. By wooing the newspapers, he would gain access to the American public,and the American public would make him a star.Again, in the civil war between Communists and Nationalists for control ofChina in the late