Lisa)--"chosen" by the artist and then placed in agallery or museum. Duchamp was giving the ideas of art priority over its images.His readymades, banal and uninteresting in themselves, inspired all kinds ofassociations, questions, and interpretations; a urinal may be a seedycommonplace, but to present it as art was utterly unconventional and stirred upangry, irritating, delirious ideas.Understand: in war, politics, and culture, what is unconventional, whether itis Hannibal's elephants and oxen or Duchamp's urinal, is never material--orrather it is never just material. The unconventional can only arise out of themind: something surprises, is not what we expected. We usually base ourexpectations on familiar conventions, cliches, habits of seeing, the ordinary.Many artists, writers, and other producers of culture seem to believe it the heightof unconventionality to create images, texts, and other works that are merelyweird, startling, or shocking in some way. These works may generate amomentary splash, but they have none of the power of the unconventional andextraordinary because they have no context to rub against; they do not workagainst our expectations. No more than strange, they quickly fade from memory.When striving to create the extraordinary, always remember: what is crucialis the mental process, not the image or maneuver itself. What will truly shockand linger long in the mind are those works and ideas that grow out of the soil of the ordinary and banal, that are unexpected, that make us question and contestthe very nature of the reality we see around us. Most definitely in art, theunconventional can only be strategic. Authority: In general, in battle one engages the enemy with the orthodoxand gains victory through the unorthodox.... The unorthodox and theorthodox mutually produce each other, just like an endless cycle. Whocan exhaust them?--Sun-tzu (fourth century B.C.)REVERSALThere is never any value in attacking opponents from a direction or in a way thatthey expect, allowing them to stiffen their resistance--that is, unless your strategyis suicide. OCCUPY THE MORAL HIGH GROUNDTHE RIGHTEOUS STRATEGYIn a political world, the cause you are fighting for must seem more just than theenemy's. Think of this as moral terrain that you and the other side are fightingover; by questioning your enemies' motives and making them appear evil, youcan narrow their base of support and room to maneuver. Aim at the soft spots intheir public image, exposing any hypocrisies on their part. Never assume thatthe justice of your cause is self-evident; publicize and promote it. When youyourself come under moral attack from a clever enemy, do not whine or getangry; fight fire with fire. If possible, position yourself as the underdog, thevictim, the martyr. Learn to inflict guilt as a moral weapon.THE MORAL OFFENSIVEIn 1513 the thirty-seven-year-old Giovanni de' Medici, son of the illustriousFlorentine Lorenzo de' Medici, was elected pope and assumed the name Leo X.The church that Leo now led was in many ways the dominant political andeconomic power in Europe, and Leo--a lover of poetry, theater, and painting, likeothers in his famous family--wanted to make it also a great patron of the arts.Earlier popes had begun the