just stepped out of the San Francisco fog. Howcould she argue with that? She wore the suit.Hitchcock's actors found working with him strange yet pleasant. Some ofHollywood's best--Joseph Cotten, Grace Kelly, Cary Grant, Ingrid Bergman--said that he was the easiest director to work for: his nonchalance was catching,and since his films were so carefully staged as not to depend on the actor'sperformance in any particular scene, they could relax. Everything went likeclockwork. As James Stewart told the cast of The Man Who Knew Too Much(1956), "We're in the hands of an expert here. You can lean on him. Just doeverything he tells you and the whole thing will be okay."As Hitchcock sat calmly on the set, apparently half asleep, the cast and crewcould see only the small part each one played. They had no idea how everythingfit into his vision. When Taylor saw Vertigo for the first time, it was like seeinganother man's dream. The film neatly duplicated the vision Hitchcock hadexpressed to him many months before.InterpretationThe first film Hitchcock directed was The Pleasure Garden, a silent he made in1925. The production went wrong in every conceivable way. Hitchcock hatedchaos and disorder; unexpected events, panicky crew members, and any loss ofcontrol made him miserable. From that point on, he decided, he would treatfilmmaking like a military operation. He would give his producers, actors, andcrew no room to mess up what he wanted to create. He taught himself everyaspect of film production: set design, lighting, the technicalities of cameras andlenses, editing, sound. He ran every stage of the film's making. No shadow couldfall between the planning and the execution.Establishing control in advance the way Hitchcock did might not seem likepresence of mind, but it actually takes that quality to its zenith. It means entering battle (in Hitchcock's case a film shoot) feeling calm and ready. Setbacks maycome, but you will have foreseen them and thought of alternatives, and you areready to respond. Your mind will never go blank when it is that well prepared.When your colleagues barrage you with doubts, anxious questions, and slipshodideas, you may nod and pretend to listen, but really you're ignoring them--you'veout-thought them in advance. And your relaxed manner will prove contagious toother people, making them easier to manage in turn.It is easy to be overwhelmed by everything that faces you in battle, where somany people are asking or telling you what to do. So many vital matters press inon you that you can lose sight of your goals and plans; suddenly you can't see theforest for the trees. Understand: presence of mind is the ability to detach yourselffrom all that, to see the whole battlefield, the whole picture, with clarity. Allgreat generals have this quality. And what gives you that mental distance ispreparation, mastering the details beforehand. Let people think your Buddha-likedetachment comes from some mysterious source. The less they understand youthe better.For the love of God, pull yourself together and do not look at things sodarkly: the first step backward makes a poor impression in