ofguilt, but to make sure that you start your next campaign with a firmer step andgreater vision. Authority: It is a common mistake in going to war to begin at the wrongend, to act first and to wait for disaster to discuss the matter.--Thucydides (between 460 and 455 B.C.-circa 400 B.C.)REVERSALGrand strategy involves two dangers that you must consider and combat. First,the successes it brings you in your first campaigns may have the same effect onyou that easy victory on the battlefield gives a general: drunk on triumph, youmay lose the sense of realism and proportion on which your future movesdepend. Even such supreme grand strategists as Julius Caesar and Napoleoneventually fell victim to this dynamic: losing their sense of reality, they began tobelieve that their instincts were infallible. The greater the victory, the greater the danger. As you get older, as you move to your next campaign, you must retrench,strain doubly hard to rein in your emotions, and maintain a sense of realism.Second, the detachment necessary to grand strategy can bring you to a pointwhere you find it hard to act. Understanding the world too well, you see toomany options and become as indecisive as Hamlet. No matter how far weprogress, we remain part animal, and it is the animal in us that fires ourstrategies, gives them life, animates us to fight. Without the desire to fight,without a capacity for the violence war churns up, we cannot deal with danger.The prudent Odysseus types are comfortable with both sides of their nature.They plan ahead as best they can, see far and wide, but when it comes time tomove ahead, they move. Knowing how to control your emotions means notrepressing them completely but using them to their best effect. KNOW YOUR ENEMYTHE INTELLIGENCE STRATEGYThe target of your strategies should be less the army you face than the mind ofthe man or woman who runs it. If you understand how that mind works, you havethe key to deceiving and controlling it. Train yourself to read people, picking upthe signals they unconsciously send about their innermost thoughts andintentions. A friendly front will let you watch them closely and mine them forinformation. Beware of projecting your own emotions and mental habits ontothem; try to think as they think. By finding your opponents' psychologicalweaknesses, you can work to unhinge their minds.THE MIRRORED ENEMYIn June 1838, Lord Auckland, the British governor-general of India, called ameeting of his top officials to discuss a proposed invasion of Afghanistan.Auckland and other British ministers had become increasingly concerned atRussia's growing influence in the area. The Russians had already made an ally ofPersia; they were now trying to do the same with Afghanistan, and if they weresuccessful, the British in India would find themselves potentially cut off by landto the west and vulnerable to more incursions by the Russians. Instead of tryingto outdo the Russians and negotiate an alliance with the Afghan ruler, DostMahomed, Auckland proposed what he thought was a surer solution: invadeAfghanistan and install a new ruler--Shah Soojah, a