Rather, his unpredictable patterns disrupted their timing andconcentration. He had less success with Pee Wee Reese and Jackie Robinson,and one day in Ebbets Field, by throwing a shoulder-high fast ball behindRobinson, Maglie brought matters to detonation. The knockdowns thrown at[Cookie] Lavagetto, the fatal pitch thrown at Ray Chapman, roared towardthe temple. A batter gets away from that pitch by ducking backward.(Chapman's freeze reaction, though not unknown, is rare.) Angered orfrustrated by Robinson that afternoon in Brooklyn, Maglie threw his best fastball behind the hitter, shoulder high. That was and is dangerous andinexcusable. As a batter strides forward, he loses height. Reflex makes himduck backward. A batter's head moves directly into the path of the fast ballthrown behind him shoulder high. Robinson started to duck into Maglie'spitch and then his phenomenal reflexes enabled him to stop, as it were, inmid-duck. The ball sailed just behind the back of Robinson's neck. Robinsonglared but did not lose his poise. Maglie threw an outside curve, andRobinson bunted toward Whitey Lockman, the Giant's first baseman. Bymaking Lockman field the bunt, Robinson was forcing Maglie to leave thepitcher's mound and cover first. There he would be in Robinson's path, andJack, going at full and full-muscled tilt, intended to run over Maglie, signinghis name in spikes on the pitcher's spine. Saturnine, Faustian, brooding SalMaglie refused to leave the mound. At a critical moment, the Barber lost hisnerve. Davey Williams, the Giants' second baseman, rushed over, and as hewas reaching for Lockman's throw, Robinson crashed into him, a kneecatching Williams in the lower back. Robinson's knee was so swollen a daylater that he could not play. Williams never really recovered. He dropped outof the major leagues two seasons later, at twenty-eight.... "Actually," Robinson himself said a few days later, "I'm sorry that Williams got hurt. Butwhen Maglie threw behind me, he was starting a really dangerous business,and I was going to put a stop to it before he hit Gil or Campy or Pee Wee inthe head...." After that I saw Maglie start eight games against the Dodgers,but I never saw him throw another fast ball behind a hitter. The grim,intimidating beanballer had been intimidated himself, and by a bunt.THE HEAD GAME, ROGER KAHN, 2000A few days later, Jackson received the news he had been waiting for:Lincoln had ordered Banks's army to return to the valley and McDowell's armyto stay where it was. The battle at Kernstown had gotten his attention and madehim worry--only a little, but enough. Lincoln did not know what Jackson was upto or how large his army was, but he wanted the Shenandoah Valley pacified nomatter what. Only then would he release Banks and McDowell. McClellan wasforced to agree with that logic, and although he had the men to march onRichmond right away, he wanted to wait for the reinforcements who would makethe attack a sure thing.After Kernstown, Jackson retreated south, away from Banks, and lay low fora few weeks. In early May, thinking that the Shenandoah Valley had beensecured, Lincoln sent McDowell toward