every day,” hewrote to a friend. “Three months will see the end of me.” Then suddenly in1768, in the middle of all this, he collapsed. He awoke to find himself bathed inblood. He had suffered a lung hemorrhage, and for days he was near death. Tothe doctors, his recovery seemed miraculous; fearful of a relapse, they made himreturn to his home in Frankfurt, where he was to be confined to his bed for manymonths.As he emerged from his illness, young Goethe felt like a different person. Hewas struck now by two ideas that would remain with him for the rest of his life.First, he had the sensation that he possessed a type of inner spirit that he namedhis daemon. This spirit was an incarnation of all of his intense, restless, demonicenergy. It could turn destructive, as it had done in Leipzig. Or he could master itand channel it into something productive. This energy was so powerful that itmade him swing from one mood or idea to the opposite—from spirituality tosensuality, from naïveté to craftiness. This daemon, he decided, was a spiritimplanted in him at birth and it encompassed his whole being. How he managedthis daemon would determine the length of his life and the success of hisendeavors.Second, coming so close to death at such an early age made him feel thepresence of death in his bones, and this feeling stayed with him for weeks afterrecovering. As he returned to life, he was suddenly struck by the strangeness ofbeing alive—of possessing a heart and lungs and brain that functioned beyondhis conscious control. He felt that there was a life force that transcended theindividual incarnations of life, a force not from God (Goethe would remain apagan his entire life), but from nature itself. In his convalescence he would takelong walks in the country, and his personal sense of the strangeness of life wastransferred to the sight of plants and trees and animals. What force brought themto their present, perfectly adapted states of life? What was the source of theenergy that made them grow?Feeling as if he had been reprieved from a death sentence, he experienced an Feeling as if he had been reprieved from a death sentence, he experienced aninsatiable curiosity for this life force. An idea came to him for a story based onthe famous German legend of a scholar named Faust, who desperately wants todiscover the secret of life, and who meets an incarnation of the devil namedMephistopheles who helps him in this quest in exchange for possession of hissoul. If ever the restless Faust experiences a moment of contentment and wantsnothing more from life, then he is to die and the devil will own his soul. Goethebegan to take notes on this drama, and in the dialogues he wrote between thedevil and Faust he could hear his own inner voices, his own demonic dualitiestalking to each other.Several years later, Goethe began life as a lawyer in Frankfurt. And as beforein Leipzig, his daemon seemed to take control of him.