shall arrive, or have arrived, at the solution ofthis mystery, is in the direct ratio of its apparent insolubility in the eyes of thepolice."AUGUSTE DUPIN IN "THE MURDERS IN THE RUE MORGUE,"EDGAR ALLAN POE, 1809-1849Perhaps the strategists of Al Qaeda neither intended all this nor evenimagined it; we will never know. But terrorism is by its nature a throw of thedice, and the terrorist always hopes for the maximum effect. Creating as muchchaos, uncertainty, and panic as possible is the whole idea. In this sense the 9/11attack must be considered a success to such an extent that it does indeedrepresent a qualitative leap in terrorism's virulence. It may not have been asphysically destructive as the explosion of a nuclear or biological weapon couldbe, but over time its reverberating power has far surpassed that of any terrorattack before it. And this power comes from the altered nature of the world.Given the deep interconnections of the new global scene, whether commercial,political, or cultural, a powerful attack at a single point can have a chain-reactiveeffect that terrorists of earlier years could never have imagined. A system ofinterconnected markets that thrives on open borders and networks is intenselyvulnerable to this intense ripple effect. The kind of panic that once might stir in acrowd or through a city can now spread over the world, fed spectacularly by themedia. To consider the 9/11 attack a failure because it did not achieve Al Qaeda'sultimate goal of pushing the United States out of the Middle East or spurring apan-Islamic revolution is to misread their strategy and to judge them by thestandards of conventional warfare. Terrorists quite often have a large goal, butthey know that the chances of reaching it in one blow are fairly negligible. Theyjust do what they can to start off their chain reaction. Their enemy is the statusquo, and their success can be measured by the impact of their actions as it playsout over the years.To combat terrorism--classical or the new version on the horizon--it isalways tempting to resort to a military solution, fighting violence with violence,showing the enemy that your will is not broken and that any future attacks ontheir part will come with a heavy price. The problem here is that terrorists bynature have much less to lose than you do. A counterstrike may hurt them butwill not deter them; in fact, it may even embolden them and help them gainrecruits. Terrorists are often willing to spend years bringing you down. To hitthem with a dramatic counterstrike is only to show your impatience, your needfor immediate results, your vulnerability to emotional responses--all signs not ofstrength but of weakness.Because of the extreme asymmetry of forces at play in the terrorist strategy,the military solution is often the least effective. Terrorists are vaporous, spreadout, linked not physically but by some radical and fanatic idea. As a frustratedNapoleon Bonaparte said when he was struggling to deal with Germannationalist groups resorting to acts of terror against the French, "A sect cannot bedestroyed by cannonballs."We can no longer conceive