thetable--the harder it will be for your opponents to defend themselves. Wheneverpossible, calculate your moves to produce this caroming effect. It is the perfectdisguise for your aggression. Authority: It is by turning the enemy, by attacking his flank, that battlesare won.--Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821)REVERSALIn politics, occupying the flank by taking a similar position to the other side, co-opting its ideas for your own purposes, is a powerful ploy, one that President Clinton used to great effect in his triangulations with the Republicans. This givesthe opponent nothing to strike at, no room to maneuver. But staying too long onthe opponent's flank can bring a price: the public--the real soft flank for anypolitician--loses its sense of what the triangulator stands for, what sets him andhis party apart from the other side. Over time this can prove dangerous; polarity(see chapter 1)--creating the appearance of sharp differences--is more effectivein the long run. Beware of occupying the opponent's flank at the expense ofexposing your own. ENVELOP THE ENEMYTHE ANNIHILATION STRATEGYPeople will use any kind of gap in your defenses to attack you or revengethemselves on you. So offer no gaps. The secret is to envelop your opponents--create relentless pressure on them from all sides, dominate their attention, andclose off their access to the outside world. Make your attacks unpredictable tocreate a vaporous feeling of vulnerability. Finally, as you sense their weakeningresolve, crush their willpower by tightening the noose. The best encirclementsare psychological--you have surrounded their minds.THE HORNS OF THE BEASTIn December 1878 the British declared war on the Zulus, the warrior tribe ofpresent-day South Africa. The rather flimsy pretext was border troubles betweenZululand and the British state of Natal; the real aim was to destroy the Zuluarmy, the last remaining native force threatening British interests in the area, andto absorb Zulu territories into a British-run confederation of states. The Britishcommander, Lieutenant General Lord Chelmsford, drafted a plan to invadeZululand with three columns, the central one aimed at the capital of Ulundi, theheart of the kingdom.Legend has it that Shaka altered the nature of fighting in the region for ever,by inventing a heavy, broad-bladed spear designed to withstand the stressesof close-quarter combat. Perhaps he did: certainly both Zulu sources and theaccounts of white travellers and officials in the nineteenth century credit himwith this achievement.... His military innovations made an impact on Zulufolklore, if nothing else, for Shaka certainly developed fighting techniques toan unprecedented degree, and there is a wealth of stories concerning hisprowess as a warrior: he may, indeed, have been one of the great militarygeniuses of his age. In place of the loose skirmishing tactics with lightthrowing spears, Shaka trained his warriors to advance rapidly in tightformations and engage hand-to-hand, battering the enemy with larger war-shields, then skewering their foes with the new spear as they were thrown offbalance. If the results are anything to judge by, Shaka's capacity for conquestmust have been dramatic. By 1824 the Zulus had eclipsed all their rivals, and had extended their influence over an area many times larger than theiroriginal