Therefore send and fetch him to me,for he shall surely die." Then Jonathan answered Saul his father, "Why shouldhe be put to death? What has he done?" But Saul cast his spear at him tosmite him; so Jonathan knew that his father was determined to put David todeath. And Jonathan rose from the table in fierce anger and ate no food thesecond day of the month, for he was grieved for David, because his fatherhad disgraced him.1 SAMUEL 20:1-11, 24-34After Munenori had sat there for a while, his page asked him what was thematter. The samurai confessed that while looking at the cherry blossoms he hadhad an intimation of imminent danger, of an enemy on the attack. What troubledhim now was that the danger had apparently been imaginary--he must havehallucinated it. A samurai depended on his keen instincts to anticipate attack. IfMunenori had lost that power, his life as a warrior was over.Suddenly the page threw himself to the ground and confessed: as Munenoriwalked in the garden, the thought had come to the page that if he were to strikeat his master while the samurai was lost in admiration of the cherry blossoms,not even this gifted swordsman could have parried his attack. Munenori had notlost his skill at all; quite the contrary--his incomparable sensitivity to otherpeople's emotions and thoughts had allowed him to pick up sensations fromsomeone behind his back, rather as a horse senses the energy of its rider or a dogthe movements of its owner. An animal has that sensitivity because it payscomplete attention. Similarly, the Shinkage school taught warriors to empty theirminds, centering themselves in the moment as animals did and keepingthemselves from getting derailed by any particular thought. This would allow theShinkage warrior to read in his opponent's elbow or hand the slight tension thatsignaled an attack; he could look through his opponent's eyes and sense thecoming blow or notice the nervous shuffle of the feet that indicated fear or confusion. A master like Munenori could virtually read someone's thoughtswhen the other person wasn't even visible.The power taught by the Shinkage school--the same power possessed byPrince Metternich--was the ability to let go of one's ego, to submerge oneselftemporarily in the other person's mind. You will be amazed at how much you canpick up about people if you can shut off your incessant interior monologue,empty your thoughts, and anchor yourself in the moment. The details you nowsee give you unfiltered information from which you can put together an accuratepicture of people's weaknesses and desires. Be particularly attentive to theireyes: it takes a lot of effort to hide the eyes' message about a person's state ofmind.According to the baseball pitcher Bob Lemon, the great player Ted Williams"was the only hitter who you felt saw through you." In the struggle betweenpitcher and batter, the pitcher has the advantage of knowing what pitch he willthrow. The hitter can only guess at that, which is why even the best of themusually connect only one out of every three or four times.