a policy of proportionate magnitude. On the other hand, if policy is directed only toward minor objectives, the emotions of the masses will be little stirred and they will have to be stimulated rather than held back. It is time to return to the main theme and observe that while policy is appar- ently effaced in the one kind of war and yet is strongly evident in the other, both kinds are equally political. If the state is thought of as a person, and policy as the product of its brain, then among the contingencies for which the state must be prepared is a war in which every element calls for policy to be eclipsed by violence. Only if politics is regarded not as resulting from a just appreciation of affairs, but-as it conventionally is-as cautious, devi- ous, even dishonest, shying away from force, could the second type of war appear to be more "political" than the first. First, therefore, it is clear that war should never be thought of as something autonomous but always as an instrument of policy; otherwise the entire his- tory of war would contradict us. Only this approach will enable us to pene- trate the problem intelligently. Second, this way of looking at it will show us how wars must vary with the nature of their motives and of the situations which give rise to them. The first, the supreme, the most far-reaching act of judgment that the statesman and commander have to make is to establish by that test the kind of war on which they are embarking; neither mistaking it for, nor trying to turn it into, something that is alien to its nature. This is the first of all 88 Copyright © ${Date}. ${Publisher}. All rights reserved. CHAPTER ONE strategic questions and the most comprehensive. It will be given detailed study later, in the chapter on war plans. It is enough, for the moment, to have reached this stage and to have established the cardinal point of view from which war and the theory of war have to he examined. War is more than a true chameleon that slightly adapts its characteristics to the given case. As a total phenomenon its dominant tendencies always make war a paradoxical trinity--composed of primordial violence, hatred, and enmity, which are to be regarded as a blind natural force; of the play of chance and probability within which the creative spirit is free to roam; and of its element of subordination, as an instrument of policy, which makes it subject to reason alone. The first of these three aspects mainly concerns the people; the second the commander and his army; the third the government. 'The passions that are to be kindled in war must already be inherent in the people; the scope which the play of courage and talent will enjoy in the realm of probability and chance depends on the particular character of the commander and the army; but the political aims are the business