would have to wait somefifteen months to find out, until the two boxers' rematch in Lewiston, Maine, inMay 1965. Consumed with a hunger for revenge, Liston trained like a demon for thissecond fight. In the opening round, he went on the attack, but he seemed wary.He followed Clay--or rather Muhammad Ali, as he was now known--around thering, trying to reach him with jabs. One of these jabs finally grazed Ali's face ashe stepped back, but, in a move so fast that few in the audience even saw it, Alicountered with a hard right that sent Liston to the canvas. He lay there for awhile, then staggered to his feet, but too late--he had been down for more thanten seconds, and the referee called the fight. Many in the crowd yelled fix,claiming that no punch had landed. Liston knew otherwise. It may not have beenthe most powerful blow, but it caught him completely by surprise, before hecould tense his muscles and prepare himself. Coming from nowhere, it flooredhim.Liston would continue to fight for another five years, but he was never thesame man again.One who studies ancient tactics and employs the army in accord with theirmethods is no different from someone who glues up the tuning stops and yettries to play a zither. I have never heard of anyone being successful. Theacumen of strategists lies in penetrating the subtle amid unfolding changeand discerning the concordant and contrary. Now whenever mobilizing youmust first employ spies to investigate whether the enemy's commandinggeneral is talented or not. If instead of implementing tactics, he merely relieson courage to employ the army, you can resort to ancient methods to conquerhim. However, if the commanding general excels in employing ancient tactics,you should use tactics that contradict the ancient methods to defeat him.HSU TUNG, CHINA, 976-1018InterpretationEven as a child, Muhammad Ali got perverse pleasure out of being different. Heliked the attention it got him, but most of all he just liked being himself: odd andindependent. When he began to train as a boxer, at the age of twelve, he wasalready refusing to fight in the usual way, flouting the rules. A boxer usuallykeeps his gloves up toward his head and upper body, ready to parry a blow. Aliliked to keep his hands low, apparently inviting attack--but he had discoveredearly on that he was quicker than other boxers, and the best way to make hisspeed work for him was to lure the opponent's chin just close enough for Ali tosnap a jab at him that would cause a lot more pain for being so close and soquick. As Ali developed, he also made it harder for the other boxer to reach himby working on his legs, even more than on the power of his punch. Instead of retreating the way most fighters did, one foot at a time, Ali kept on his toes,shuffling back and dancing, in perpetual motion to his own peculiar rhythm.More than any other boxer, he was a moving target. Unable to land a punch, theother boxer