a few years. He heard endless stories of his friends from schoolbecoming prominent members of society, with growing families of their own. Incomparison he felt like a total failure. All that he had accomplished was a fewarticles in newspapers about high society and a book that had made him thelaughingstock of Paris. The only thing he could rely on was the continueddevotion of his mother.In the midst of his despair he had an idea. For several years he had beendevouring the works of the English art critic and thinker John Ruskin. He wouldteach himself English and translate Ruskin’s work into French. This wouldrequire years of scholarly research into the various topics Ruskin specialized in,such as gothic architecture. It would consume much of his time, and he wouldhave to put off any ideas of writing a novel. But it would show his parents thathe was serious about making a living and that he had chosen a career. Clingingto this as his last hope, he poured himself into the task with all of his energy.After several years of intense labor, a few of his translations of Ruskin werepublished to great acclaim. His introductions and the essays that accompaniedthe translations finally erased the reputation of the idle dilettante that hadhaunted him since Pleasures and Days. He was seen as a serious scholar.Through his work, he had managed to hone his own style of writing;internalizing the work of Ruskin, he could now write essays that were thoughtfuland precise. He had finally gained some discipline, something to build on. But inthe midst of this modest success, his network of emotional support suddenly teetered and then vanished. In 1903 his father died. Two years later his mother,unable to get over the loss, passed away as well. They had hardly ever been apartfrom each other, and he had dreaded the moment of her death since childhood.He felt completely alone, and he feared that he had nothing left to live for.In the months to come he slowly withdrew from society, and as he took stockof his life up to that point he discerned a pattern that actually gave him thefaintest amount of hope. To compensate for his physical weakness he had takento reading, and in the process had discovered his Life’s Task. Over the course ofthe last twenty years he had accumulated a vast amount of knowledge aboutFrench society—an incredibly wide variety of real-life characters of all typesand classes lived inside of his head. He had written thousands of pages—including the failed novel, short sketches for newspapers, and various essays.Using Ruskin as a mentor, in translating his works he had developed disciplineand some organizing skills. He had long thought of life as an apprenticeship inwhich we are all slowly instructed in the ways of the world. Some people learnto read the signs and heed the lessons from this apprenticeship, developingthemselves in the process; others do not. He had served an elaborate twenty-yearapprenticeship in writing and in human nature, and it had altered him deeply.Despite his ill health and