the least inferior to anyone who was a warrior by family tradition.He had a strong mind, was quick with his hands, and had tremendousstrength. He was also subtle in thinking and plotting. So even the imperialcourt did not feel insecure in employing him in the way of the warrior. As aresult, the whole world greatly feared him and was intimidated by him. LEGENDS OF THE SAMURAI, HIROAKI SATO, 1995Lord Nelson operated according to the opposite principle. Slight of build,with a delicate constitution, he compensated for his physical weakness withfierce determination. He forced himself to be more resolute than anyone aroundhim. The moment he entered battle, he ratcheted up his aggressive impulses.Where other sea lords worried about casualties, the wind, changes in the enemy'sformation, he concentrated on his plan. Before battle no one strategized orstudied his opponent more thoroughly. (That knowledge helped Nelson to sensewhen the enemy was ready to crumble.) But once the engagement began,hesitation and carefulness were dropped.Presence of mind is a kind of counterbalance to mental weakness, to ourtendency to get emotional and lose perspective in the heat of battle. Our greatestweakness is losing heart, doubting ourselves, becoming unnecessarily cautious.Being more careful is not what we need; that is just a screen for our fear ofconflict and of making a mistake. What we need is double the resolve--anintensification of confidence. That will serve as a counterbalance.In moments of turmoil and trouble, you must force yourself to be moredetermined. Call up the aggressive energy you need to overcome caution andinertia. Any mistakes you make, you can rectify with more energetic action still.Save your carefulness for the hours of preparation, but once the fighting begins,empty your mind of doubts. Ignore those who quail at any setback and call forretreat. Find joy in attack mode. Momentum will carry you through.The senses make a more vivid impression on the mind than systematicthought.... Even the man who planned the operation and now sees it beingcarried out may well lose confidence in his earlier judgment.... War has away of masking the stage with scenery crudely daubed with fearsomeapparitions. Once this is cleared away, and the horizon becomesunobstructed, developments will confirm his earlier convictions--this is one ofthe great chasms between planning and execution.--Carl von Clausewitz, ON WAR (1780-1831)THE DETACHED-BUDDHA TACTICWatching the movie director Alfred Hitchcock (1899-1980) at work on a film setwas often quite a surprise to those seeing it for the first time. Most filmmakersare wound-up balls of energy, yelling at the crew and barking out orders, but Hitchcock would sit in his chair, sometimes dozing, or at least with his eyes halfclosed. On the set of Strangers on a Train, made in 1951, the actor FarleyGranger thought Hitchcock's behavior meant he was angry or upset and askedhim if anything was wrong. "Oh," Hitchcock replied sleepily, "I'm so bored."The crew's complaints, an actor's tantrums--nothing fazed him; he would justyawn, shift in his chair, and ignore the problem. "Hitchcock...didn't seem todirect us at all," said the actress Margaret Lockwood. "He was a dozing, noddingBuddha with