structure can stand forlong when it rots from within.Athene now inspired Prylis, son of Hermes, to suggest that entry should begained into Troy by means of a wooden horse; and Epeius, son of Panopeus,a Phocian from Parnassus, volunteered to build one under Athene'ssupervision. Afterwards, of course, Odysseus claimed all the credit for thisstratagem...... [Epeius] built an enormous hollow horse of fir planks, with atrapdoor fitted into one flank, and large letters cut on the other whichconsecrated it to Athene: "In thankful anticipation of a safe return to theirhomes, the Greeks dedicate this offering to the Goddess." Odysseuspersuaded the bravest of the Greeks to climb fully armed up a rope-ladderand through the trapdoor into the belly of the horse.... Among them wereMenelaus, Odysseus, Diomedes, Sthenelus, Acamas, Thoas, andNeoptolemus. Coaxed, threatened, and bribed, Epeius himself joined theparty. He climbed up last, drew the ladder in after him and, since he aloneknew how to work the trapdoor, took his seat beside the lock. At nightfall, theremaining Greeks under Agamemnon followed Odysseus's instructions, whichwere to burn their camp, put out to sea and wait off Tenedos and theCalydnian Islands until the following evening....... At the break of day, Trojanscouts reported that the camp lay in ashes and that the Greeks had departed,leaving a huge horse on the seashore. Priam and several of his sons went outto view it and, as they stood staring in wonder, Thymoetes was the first tobreak the silence. "Since this is a gift to Athene," he said, "I propose that wetake it into Troy and haul it up to her citadel." "No, no!" cried Capys. "Athenefavoured the Greeks too long; we must either burn it at once or break it open to see what the belly contains." But Priam declared: "Thymoetes is right. Wewill fetch it in on rollers. Let nobody desecrate Athene's property." The horseproved too broad to be squeezed through the gates. Even when the wall hadbeen breached, it stuck four times. With enormous efforts the Trojans thenhauled it up to the citadel; but at least took the precaution of repairing thebreach behind them.... At midnight...Odysseus ordered Epeius to unlock thetrapdoor.... Now the Greeks poured silently through the moonlit streets, brokeinto the unguarded houses, and cut the throats of the Trojans as they slept.THE GREEK MYTHS, VOL. 2, ROBERT GRAVES, 1955THE INVISIBLE ENEMYLate in 1933, Adolf Hitler appointed the forty-six-year-old Rear AdmiralWilhelm Canaris chief of the Abwehr, the secret intelligence and counter-espionage service of the German General Staff. Hitler had recently wondictatorial powers as the ruler of Germany, and, with an eye on future conquestsin Europe, he wanted Canaris to make the Abwehr an agency as efficient as theBritish Secret Service. Canaris was a slightly odd choice for the position. Hecame from the aristocracy, was not a member of the Nazi Party, and had not hada particularly outstanding military career. But Hitler saw traits in Canaris thatwould make him a superior spymaster: cunning in the extreme, a man made forintrigue and deception, he knew how to get results.