can perhaps provide what your parents didn’t give you—support,confidence, direction, space to discover things on your own. Look for mentorswho can do that, and beware of falling into the opposite trap—opting for amentor who resembles one of your parents, including all of his negative traits.You will merely repeat what hampered you in the first place.2. Gaze deep into the mentor’s mirrorHakuin Zenji (1685–1769) was born in a village near the town of Hara in Japan,his family on his father’s side coming from an illustrious line of samuraiwarriors. As a child, Hakuin had the kind of relentless energy that would seem tomark him for a life dedicated to the martial arts. But at around the age of eleven,he heard a priest deliver a sermon about the torments of hell for those who werenot careful, and this talk filled the young boy with an intense anguish thatnothing could extinguish. All of his tenacious energy was now directed towarddoubts about his own worth, and by the age of fourteen he decided that the onlyway to quell his anxiety was to pursue the religious path and become a priest. Hewas particularly attracted to Zen Buddhism, having read stories of great Mastersin China and Japan overcoming endless obstacles and suffering to reachenlightenment. The idea of passing through a phase of suffering accorded wellwith his innermost doubts about himself.At the age of eighteen he was sent to a training center to prepare him for hislife as a priest. The method of teaching, however, disappointed him. He hadimagined twenty-four-hour sessions of meditation and other ordeals. Instead, hewas made to study all kinds of Chinese and Japanese texts. What he read andheard from his instructors did not change him at all. It was merely intellectualknowledge that had little connection to his daily life. His anxieties onlyincreased. He left this temple and began to wander, looking for the mentor whocould guide him.He entered one Zen school after another, in every corner of Japan, and hebegan to get a clear idea of the state of Zen instruction at that time. It revolvedaround simple sessions of seated meditation, with little instruction, until finally agiant bell would sound and the monks would hurry to eat or sleep. In their sparetime, they would chant for happiness and peace. Zen had turned into one largesoporific, designed to lull students into a state of rest and lethargy. It wasdeemed too invasive and too overbearing to give students any direction; theywere supposed to find their own way to enlightenment. Naturally, when given were supposed to find their own way to enlightenment. Naturally, when givensuch free rein, they would opt for the easiest path—doing nothing. This trendhad spread throughout Japan; monks everywhere had convinced themselves thatZen was easy and simple, and that whatever felt right was right.Occasionally Hakuin would hear of some school or priest that was creating astir somewhere, and he would travel to see for himself. In 1708, he spent weekstraveling to reach a temple at a coastal town where just such a provocative priestwas