army marching into Italy was a novel surprise, andit stirred the rawest emotions. They had to teach these barbarians a lesson fortheir brazen invasion.Legions were quickly dispatched to the north to destroy Hannibal. After afew skirmishes, an army under the Roman consul Sempronius Longus preparedto meet the Carthaginians in direct battle near the river Trebia. Semproniusburned with both hatred and ambition: he wanted to crush Hannibal and also tobe seen as the savior of Rome. But Hannibal was acting strangely. His lightcavalry would cross the river as if to attack the Romans, then retreat back: Werethe Carthaginians afraid? Were they ready to make only minor raids and sorties?Finally Sempronius had had enough and went in pursuit. To make sure he hadsufficient forces to defeat the enemy, he brought his entire army across thefreezing-cold river (it was wintertime), all of which took hours and wasexhausting. Finally, however, the two armies met just to the west of the river.It is assumed that Alexander encamped at Haranpur; opposite him on theeastern back of the Hydaspes was Porus, who was seen to have with him alarge number of elephants....... Because all fords were held by pickets andelephants, Alexander realized that his horses could neither be swum norrafted across the river, because they would not face the trumpeting of theelephants and would become frantic when in the water or on their rafts. Heresorted to a series of feints. While small parties were dispatched toreconnoitre all possible crossing places, he divided his army into columns,which he marched up and down the river as if he sought a place of crossing.Then, when shortly before the summer solstice the rains set in and the riverbecame swollen, he had corn conveyed from all quarters to his camp so thatPorus might believe that he had resolved to remain where he was until the dryweather. In the meantime he reconnoitred the river with his ships and orderedtent skins to be stuffed with hay and converted into rafts. Yet, as Arrianwrites, "all the time he was waiting in ambush to see whether by rapidity ofmovement he could not steal a passage anywhere without being observed." Atlength, and we may be certain after a close personal reconnaissance,Alexander resolved to make the attempt at the headland and island describedby Arrian, and in preparation he decided on a manoeuvre almost identicalwith that adopted by General Wolfe in his 1759 Quebec campaign. Undercover of night he sent out his cavalry to various points along the westernbank of the river with orders to make a clamour, and from time to time to raise the battle-cry; for several nights Porus marched his elephants up anddown the eastern bank to block an attempted crossing until he got tired of it,kept his elephants in camp, and posted scouts along the eastern bank. Then"when Alexander had brought it about that the mind of Porus no longerentertained any fear of his nocturnal attempts, he devised the followingstratagem": Upstream and along the western bank he posted a chain ofsentries, each post in sight