a leader, and welcomed withenthusiasm the prospect of liberty. THE HISTORIES, HERODOTUS, 484-432 B.C.And then the film would be a finished product, and suddenly everything thathad seemed peculiar about his method made perfect sense. Audiences oftenresponded to Hitchcock's films more deeply than they did to the work of anyother director. The images, the pacing, the camera movements, swept them alongand got under their skin. A Hitchcock film was not just seen, it was experienced,and it stayed in the mind long after the viewing. Interpretation In interviews Hitchcock often told a story about his childhood:When he was around six, his father, upset at something he had done, sent him tothe local police station with a note. The officer on duty read the note and lockedlittle Alfred in a cell, telling him, "This is what we do to naughty boys." He wasreleased after just a few minutes, but the experience marked him indelibly. Hadhis father yelled at him, as most boys' fathers did, he would have becomedefensive and rebellious. But leaving him alone, surrounded by frighteningauthority figures, in a dark cell, with its unfamiliar smells--that was a much morepowerful way to communicate. As Hitchcock discovered, to teach people alesson, to really alter their behavior, you must alter their experience, aim at theiremotions, inject unforgettable images into their minds, shake them up. Unlessyou are supremely eloquent, it is hard to accomplish this through words anddirect expression. There are simply too many people talking at us, trying topersuade us of this or that. Words become part of this noise, and we either tunethem out or become even more resistant.To communicate in a deep and real way, you must bring people back to theirchildhood, when they were less defensive and more impressed by sounds,images, actions, a world of preverbal communication. It requires speaking a kindof language composed of actions, all strategically designed to effect people's moods and emotions, what they can least control. That is precisely the languageHitchcock developed and perfected over the years. With actors he wanted to getthe most natural performance out of them, in essence get them not to act. To tellthem to relax or be natural would have been absurd; it would only have madethem more awkward and defensive than they already were. Instead, just as hisfather had gotten him to feel terror in a London police station, he got them to feelthe emotions of the movie: frustration, isolation, loss of inhibition. (Of course hehadn't mislaid the handcuffs' key somewhere on the set of The 39 Steps, as Donatlater found out; the supposed loss was a strategy.) Instead of prodding actorswith irritating words, which come from the outside and are pushed away,Hitchcock made these feelings part of their inner experience--and thiscommunicated immediately onscreen. With audiences, too, Hitchcock neverpreached a message. Instead he used the visual power of film to return them tothat childlike state when images and compelling symbols had such a visceraleffect.It is imperative in life's battles to be able to communicate your ideas topeople, to be able to alter