aﬀection. It persuades without words and obtains without earning. This sympathy is sometimes active, sometimes passive, both alike feliciﬁc; the more so, the more sublime. 'Tis a great art to recognise, to distinguish and to utilise this gift. No amount of energy suﬃces without that favour of nature. xlv Use, but do not abuse, Cunning. One ought not to delight in it, still less to boast of it. Everything artiﬁcial should be concealed, most of all cunning, which is hated. Deceit is much in use; therefore our caution has to be redoubled, but not so as to show itself, for it arouses distrust, causes much annoy , awakens revenge, and gives rise to more ills than you would imagine. To go to work with caution is of great advantage in action, and there is no greater proof of wisdom. The greatest skill in any deed consists in the sure mastery with which it is executed. xlvi Master your Antipathies.W e often allow ourselves to take dislikes, and that before we know anything of a person. At times this innate yet vulgar aversion attaches Itself to eminent personalities. Good sense masters this feeling, for there is nothing more discreditable than to dislike those better than ourselves. As sympathy with great men en-nobles us, so dislike to them degrades us. xlvii Avoid "Affairs of Honour" -- one of the chiefest aims of prudence. In men of great ability the extremes are kept far asunder, so that there is a long distance between them, and they always keep in the middle of their caution, so that they take time to break through it. It is easier to avoid such aﬀairs than to come well out of them. They test our judgment; it is better to avoid them than to conquer in them. One aﬀair of honour leads to another, and may lead to an aﬀair of dishonour. There are men so constituted by nature or by nation that they easily enter upon such obligations. But for him that walks by the light of reason, such a matter requires long thinking over. There is more valour needed not to take up the aﬀair than to conquer in it. When there is one fool ready for the occasion, one may excuse oneself from being the second. xlviii Be Thorough. How much depends on the person. The interior must be at least as much as the exterior. There are natures all frontage, like houses that for want of means have the portico of a palace leading to the rooms of a cottage. It is no use boring into such persons, although they bore you, for conversation ﬂags after the ﬁrst salutation. They prance through the ﬁrst compliments like Sicilian barbs, but silence soon succeeds, for the ﬂow of words soon ceases where there is no spring of thoughts. Others may be taken in by them because they themselves have but a view of the surface, but not the prudent, who look within them and ﬁnd nothing