a little shaken up by the blast, "but mark you, Iwould not be elsewhere for thousands."Parker followed the battle from his position to the north. He now regrettedagreeing to Nelson's plan; he was responsible for the campaign, and a defeat herecould ruin his career. After four hours of back-and-forth bombardment, he hadseen enough: the fleet had taken a beating and had gained no advantage. Nelsonnever knew when to quit. Parker decided it was time to hoist signal flag 39, theorder to withdraw. The first ships to see it were to acknowledge it and pass thesignal on down the line. Once acknowledged there was nothing else to do butretreat. The battle was over.On board the Elephant, a lieutenant told Nelson about the signal. The vice-admiral ignored it. Continuing to pound the Danish defenses, he eventuallycalled to an officer, "Is number sixteen still hoisted?" Number 16 was his ownflag; it meant "Engage the enemy more closely." The officer confirmed that the flag was still flying. "Mind you keep it so," Nelson told him. A few minuteslater, Parker's signal still flapping in the breeze, Nelson turned to his flagcaptain: "You know, Foley, I have only one eye--I have a right to be blindsometimes." And raising his telescope to his blind eye, he calmly remarked, "Ireally do not see the signal."Torn between obeying Parker and obeying Nelson, the fleet captains choseNelson. They would risk their careers along with his. But soon the Danishdefenses started to crack; some of the ships anchored in the harbor surrendered,and the firing of the guns began to slow. Less than an hour after Parker's signalto stop the battle, the Danes surrendered.The next day Parker perfunctorily congratulated Nelson on the victory. Hedid not mention his subordinate's disobedience. He was hoping the whole affair,including his own lack of courage, would be quietly forgotten.InterpretationWhen the Admiralty put its faith in Sir Hyde, it made a classical military error: itentrusted the waging of a war to a man who was careful and methodical. Suchmen may seem calm, even strong, in times of peace, but their self-control oftenhides weakness: the reason they think things through so carefully is that they areterrified of making a mistake and of what that might mean for them and theircareer. This doesn't come out until they are tested in battle: suddenly they cannotmake a decision. They see problems everywhere and defeat in the smallestsetback. They hang back not out of patience but out of fear. Often these momentsof hesitation spell their doom.There was once a man who may be called the "generalissimo" of robbers andwho went by the name of Hakamadare. He had a strong mind and a powerfulbuild. He was swift of foot, quick with his hands, wise in thinking andplotting. Altogether there was no one who could compare with him. Hisbusiness was to rob people of their possessions when they were off guard.Once, around the tenth month of a year, he needed clothing and decided toget hold of some. He went to prospective spots and walked about,