anenormous role in its behavior, but which are elements we cannot see or measure.It has its own highly complex interactions with the environment that becomedistorted when we break them up into parts. The animal’s continuously fluid,dimensional interaction with its environment is also something that is not visible to our eyes. With warfare, once battle is engaged, we become susceptible to whatis known as the fog of war—the highly unpredictable element that comes intoplay when two opposing forces square up and nothing can be preciselyanticipated. The situation is continuously fluid, as one side reacts to the otherand the unexpected intervenes. This battle in real time has an interactive,changing element that cannot be reduced to its parts or to simple analysis, and isnot something we can see and measure.This unseen element that constitutes the animal’s entire experience, and thatmakes battle a fluid, organic entity, can be called various things. To the ancientChinese, who understood this very well, it was known as the Tao or Way, andthis Way inhabits everything in the world and is embedded in the relationshipsbetween things. The Way is visible to the expert—in cooking, carpentry,warfare, or philosophy. We shall call it the dynamic, the living force thatinevitably operates in anything we study or do. It is how the whole thingfunctions, and how the relationships evolve from within. It is not the moves ofthe pieces on the chessboard but the entire game, involving the psychologies ofthe players, their strategies in real time, their past experiences influencing thepresent, the comfort of the chairs they are sitting in, how their energies affecteach other—in a word, everything that comes into play, all at once.Through intense absorption in a particular field over a long period of time,Masters come to understand all of the parts involved in what they are studying.They reach a point where all of this has become internalized and they are nolonger seeing the parts, but gain an intuitive feel for the whole. They literally seeor sense the dynamic. In the living sciences, we have the example of JaneGoodall, who studied chimpanzees in the wilds of East Africa for years as shelived among them. Interacting with them constantly, she reached a point whereshe began to think like a chimpanzee, and could see elements of their social lifethat no other scientist had come close to fathoming. She gained an intuitive feelfor not only how they functioned as individuals but as a group, which is aninseparable part of their lives. She made discoveries about the social life ofchimpanzees that forever altered our conception of the animal, and that are noless scientific for depending on this deep level of intuition.In warfare, we can point to the great German general Erwin Rommel, whowas said to possess the highest form of the fingertip feel ever chronicled in thehistory of battle. He could sense exactly where the enemy was thinking ofstriking and foil their plans; he could launch an offensive at precisely the weakpoint in their lines of defense. He seemed to have eyes in the back of