doing things, you must make theconscious decision to play against the very conventions that you find dead andwant to get rid of. Martha Graham did not create her work out of a vacuum; hervision corresponded to what ballet and modern dance of the time were not givingher. She took their conventions and turned them upside down. Following thisstrategy will give your work a kind of reverse reference point and a way to shapeit.Like Graham, you must not mistake newness with wild spontaneity. There isnothing that becomes repetitive and boring more quickly than free expressionthat is not rooted in reality and discipline. You must bring to your new idea all ofthe knowledge you have acquired in your field, but for the purpose of reversingit, as Graham did with the Denishawn method. In essence, what you are doing iscreating some space in a cluttered culture, claiming for yourself an open field inwhich you can finally plant something new. People are dying for the new, forwhat expresses the spirit of the time in an original way. By creating somethingnew you will create your own audience, and attain the ultimate position of powerin culture.6. The High EndYoky Matsuoka (see chapter 1, pages 33–35) always had the feeling that she wasdifferent from others. It wasn’t so much how she dressed or looked, but herinterests that set her apart. As a teenager in Japan in the early 1980s, she wasexpected to focus on a particular subject that she would transform into a career.But as she got older, her interests only widened. She had a love for physics andmathematics, but was attracted to biology and physiology as well. She was also atalented athlete with a future as a professional tennis player, until an injury cutthis short. On top of it all, she loved working with her hands and tinkering withmachines.Much to her relief, when she began her undergraduate studies at theUniversity of California at Berkeley, she fell upon a subject that seemed to openup all sorts of larger questions that would satisfy her voracious, wide-ranginginterests—the relatively new field of robotics. After completing herundergraduate studies, curious to explore this subject further, she entered themasters program in robotics at MIT. As part of her work in the department, shewas to help in the design of the large-scale robot they were building, and soonshe chose to work exclusively on the design of the robot’s hands. She had always been fascinated by the complexity and power of the human hand, andwith the chance to combine so many of her interests (mathematics, physiology,and building things), it seemed she had finally found her niche.As she began her work on the hands, however, she realized yet again howdifferent she was in her way of thinking. The other students in the departmentwere mostly men, and they tended to reduce everything to questions ofengineering—how to pack the robot with as many mechanical options aspossible so it could move and act in reasonably human ways. They thought oftheir robot as intrinsically a machine. To build it meant