find art unrelated toscience, or narrow his or her intellectual interests? The mind was designed toconnect things, like a loom that knits together all of the threads of a fabric. If lifeexists as an organic whole and cannot be separated into parts without losing asense of the whole, then thinking should make itself equal to the whole.Friends and acquaintances noticed a strange phenomenon in this twilightperiod of Goethe’s life—he loved to talk about the future, decades and centuriesahead. In his Weimar years he had added to his studies, reading many books oneconomics, history, and political science. Gaining new insights from thesereadings and adding to them his own reasoning, he loved to predict the tide ofhistorical events, and those who witnessed these predictions were later shockedat his prescience. Years before the French Revolution he had predicted the fall ofthe Bourbon monarchy, intuiting that it had lost its legitimacy in the eyes of thepeople. Participating on the German side in battles to overturn the FrenchRevolution, and witnessing the victory of the French civilian army at the battleof Valmy, he exclaimed, “Here and now begins a new historical era; and you canall say you have seen it.” He meant the coming era of democracies and civilianarmies.Now in his seventies, he would tell people that petty nationalism was a dyingforce and that one day Europe would form a union like the United States, adevelopment he welcomed. He talked excitedly of the United States itself, development he welcomed. He talked excitedly of the United States itself,predicting that it would some day be the great power in the world, its bordersslowly expanding to fill the continent. He discussed his belief that a new scienceof telegraphy would connect the globe, and that people would have access to thelatest news by the hour. He called this future “the velocipedic age,” onedetermined by speed. He was concerned that it could lead to a deadening of thehuman spirit.Finally, at the age of eighty-two, he could sense that the end was near, eventhough his mind was sparking with more ideas than ever before. He said to afriend that it was a shame that he could not live another eighty years—what newdiscoveries he could make, with all of his accumulated experience! He had beenpostponing it for years, but now it was time to finally write the ending to Faustitself: the scholar would find a moment of happiness, the devil would take hissoul, but divine forces would forgive Faust for his great intellectual ambition, forhis relentless quest for knowledge, and would save him from hell—perhapsGoethe’s own judgment on himself.A few months later, he wrote his friend, the great linguist and educatorWilhelm von Humboldt, the following: “The human organs, by means ofpractice, training, reflection, success or failure, furtherance or resistance … learnto make the necessary connections unconsciously, the acquired and the intuitiveworking hand-in-hand, so that a unison results which is the world’s wonder …The world is ruled by bewildered theories of bewildering operations; andnothing is to me more important than, so far as is