a chance of success, achance that is heightened by acting with boldness. The difference is that with arisk, if you lose, you can recover: your reputation will suffer no long-termdamage, your resources will not be depleted, and you can return to your originalposition with acceptable losses. With a gamble, on the other hand, defeat can lead to a slew of problems that are likely to spiral out of control. With a gamblethere tend to be too many variables to complicate the picture down the road ifthings go wrong. The problem goes further: if you encounter difficulties in agamble, it becomes harder to pull out--you realize that the stakes are too high;you cannot afford to lose. So you try harder to rescue the situation, often makingit worse and sinking deeper into a hole that you cannot get out of. People aredrawn into gambles by their emotions: they see only the glittering prospects ifthey win and ignore the ominous consequences if they lose. Taking risks isessential; gambling is foolhardy. It can be years before you recover from agamble, if you recover at all.The invasion of Afghanistan was a classic gamble. The Soviets were drawnin by the irresistible lure of possessing a client state in the region. Dazzled bythat prospect, they ignored the reality: the mujahideen and outside powers hadtoo much at stake to ever allow the Soviets to leave behind a secure Afghanistan.There were too many variables beyond their control: the actions of the UnitedStates and Pakistan, the mountainous border areas impossible to seal off, andmore. An occupying army in Afghanistan involved a double bind: the larger themilitary presence, the more it would be hated, and the more it was hated, thelarger it would have to be to protect itself, and so on indefinitely.Yet the Soviets took their gamble and made their mess. Now, too late, theyrealized that the stakes had been raised: to pull out--to lose--would be adevastating blow to their prestige. It would mean the expansion of Americaninterests and a cancerous insurgency on their border. Since they should neverhave invaded in the first place, they had no rational exit strategy. The best theycould do would be to cut their losses and run--but that is nearly impossible witha gamble, for gambling is governed by emotions, and once the emotions areengaged, it is difficult to retreat.The worst way to end anything--a war, a conflict, a relationship--is slowlyand painfully. The costs of such an ending run deep: loss of self-confidence,unconscious avoidance of conflict the next time around, the bitterness andanimosity left breeding--it is all an absurd waste of time. Before entering anyaction, you must calculate in precise terms your exit strategy. How exactly willthe engagement end, and where it will leave you? If the answers to thosequestions seem vague and full of speculation, if success seems all too alluringand failure somewhat dangerous, you are more than likely taking a gamble. Youremotions are leading you into a situation that could end up a quagmire.Before that happens, catch yourself. And if you do find you