series of lightning maneuvers. Next he marched on the Athenians,who, fearing his retribution, begged forgiveness and pleaded to be readmitted tothe league. Alexander granted their wish.The eccentric young prince had shown himself to be a bold andunpredictable king--attacking when he was not meant to, yet showing Athensunexpected mercy. He was hard to read, but his first maneuvers as king had wonhim many admirers. His next move, however, was still stranger and moreaudacious: instead of working to consolidate his gains and strengthen the fragileleague, he proposed to launch a crusade against the Persian Empire, the Greeks'great enemy. Some 150 years earlier, the Persians had tried to invade Greece.They had almost succeeded, and it remained their dream to try it again and get itright. With Persia a constant threat, the Greeks could never rest easy, and theirmaritime trade was cramped by the power of the Persian navy.THE FOX AND THE MONKEY ELECTED KING The monkey, having danced in an assembly of the animals and earned theirapproval, was elected by them to be king. The fox was jealous. So, seeing apiece of meat one day in a snare, he led the monkey to it, saying that he hadfound a treasure. But rather than take it for himself, he had kept guard overit, as its possession was surely a prerogative of royalty. The fox then urgedhim to take it.The monkey approached it, taking no care, and was caught in the trap. Whenhe accused the fox of luring him into a trap, the fox replied: "Monkey, youwant to reign over all the animals, but look what a fool you are!" It is thusthat those who throw themselves into an enterprise without sufficient thoughtnot only fail, but even become a laughing stock. FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C.In 334 B.C., Alexander led a united army of 35,000 Greeks across theDardanelle Straits and into Asia Minor, the westernmost part of the PersianEmpire. In their first encounter with the enemy, at the Battle of the Granicus, theGreeks routed the Persians. Alexander's generals could only admire his boldness:he seemed poised to conquer Persia, fulfilling his mother's prophecy in recordtime. He succeeded through speed and by seizing the initiative. Now soldiers andgenerals alike expected him to head straight east into Persia to finish off theenemy army, which seemed surprisingly weak.Once again Alexander confounded expectations, suddenly deciding to dowhat he had never done before: take his time. That would have seemed wisewhen he first came to power, but now it seemed likely to give the Persians theone thing they needed: time to recover and replenish. Yet Alexander led his armynot east but south, down the coast of Asia Minor, freeing local towns fromPersian rule. Next he zigzagged east and then south again, through Phoenicia andinto Egypt, quickly defeating the weak Persian garrison there. The Egyptianshated their Persian rulers and welcomed Alexander as their liberator. NowAlexander could use Egypt's vast stores of grain to feed the Greek army and helpkeep the Greek economy stable, while depriving Persia of valuable resources.As the Greeks advanced