obsession with stopping the spread ofcommunism, they failed to note the far deeper influences of culture and religionon the North Vietnamese way of fighting. Theirs was a grand-strategic blunderof the highest order.Grand strategists keep sensitive antennae attuned to the politics of anysituation. Politics is the art of promoting and protecting your own interests. Youmight think it was largely a question of parties and factions, but every individualis, among other things, a political creature seeking to secure his or her ownposition. Your behavior in the world always has political consequences, in thatthe people around you will analyze it in terms of whether it helps or harms them.To win the battle at the cost of alienating potential allies or creating intractableenemies is never wise.Taking politics into account, you must figure out your grand strategy with a mind to gaining support from other people--to creating and strengthening a base.In the Roman Civil War in 49 B.C., Julius Caesar faced off against Pompey, whowas then the more experienced military man. Caesar gained the edge byplanning his maneuvers with an eye to their effect on public opinion in Rome.Lacking support in the Senate, he built support among the general public. Caesarwas a brilliant political animal, and what made him so was his grasp of thepublic psyche: he understood their self-interest and shaped his strategiesaccordingly. Being political means understanding people--seeing through theireyes. Sever the roots. In a society dominated by appearances, the real source of aproblem is sometimes hard to grasp. To work out a grand strategy against anenemy, you have to know what motivates him or is the source of his power. Toomany wars and battles drag on because neither side knows how to strike at theother's roots. As a grand strategist, you must expand your vision not only far andwide but under. Think hard, dig deep, do not take appearances for reality.Uncover the roots of the trouble and you can strategize to sever them, ending thewar or problem with finality.When the Carthaginian general Hannibal invaded Italy in 218 B.C., variousRoman generals strained to defeat him, but none was effective. The Romangeneral later called Scipio Africanus looked at the situation differently: theproblem wasn't Hannibal himself, or his base in Spain, or his ability to restockhis supplies by sea from Carthage; the problem was Carthage itself. This was acountry with an intractable hatred of Rome, and a long power struggle hadendured between the two. Instead of taking on Hannibal, a brilliant military man,in Italy, then, Scipio invaded Carthage, forcing Hannibal to leave Italy to defendhis homeland. The attack on Carthage was more than a mere feint to drawHannibal away; it was a sizable invasion. Scipio's grand strategy worked toperfection: not only did he defeat Hannibal in battle, he destroyed Carthage as arival power, permanently ending its ability to stand up to Rome.This is as it should be. No major proposal required for war can be worked outin ignorance of political factors; and when people talk, as they often do,about harmful political influence on the management of