bosses orscheming peers.This emphasis on your uniqueness and a Life’s Task might seem a poeticconceit without any bearing on practical realities, but in fact it is extremelyrelevant to the times that we live in. We are entering a world in which we canrely less and less upon the state, the corporation, or family or friends to help andprotect us. It is a globalized, harshly competitive environment. We must learn todevelop ourselves. At the same time, it is a world teeming with critical problemsand opportunities, best solved and seized by entrepreneurs—individuals or smallgroups who think independently, adapt quickly, and possess unique perspectives.Your individualized, creative skills will be at a premium.Think of it this way: What we lack most in the modern world is a sense of alarger purpose to our lives. In the past, it was organized religion that oftensupplied this. But most of us now live in a secularized world. We human animalsare unique—we must build our own world. We do not simply react to events outof biological scripting. But without a sense of direction provided to us, we tendto flounder. We don’t how to fill up and structure our time. There seems to be nodefining purpose to our lives. We are perhaps not conscious of this emptiness,but it infects us in all kinds of ways.Feeling that we are called to accomplish something is the most positive wayfor us to supply this sense of purpose and direction. It is a religious-like quest foreach of us. This quest should not be seen as selfish or antisocial. It is in factconnected to something much larger than our individual lives. Our evolution as aspecies has depended on the creation of a tremendous diversity of skills andways of thinking. We thrive by the collective activity of people supplying theirindividual talents. Without such diversity, a culture dies.Your uniqueness at birth is a marker of this necessary diversity. To the degree you cultivate and express it you are fulfilling a vital role. Our times mightemphasize equality, which we then mistake for the need for everyone to be thesame, but what we really mean by this is the equal chance for people to expresstheir differences, to let a thousand flowers bloom. Your vocation is more thanthe work that you do. It is intimately connected to the deepest part of your beingand is a manifestation of the intense diversity in nature and within humanculture. In this sense, you must see your vocation as eminently poetic andinspiring.Some 2,600 years ago the ancient Greek poet Pindar wrote, “Become whoyou are by learning who you are.” What he meant is the following: You are bornwith a particular makeup and tendencies that mark you as a piece of fate. It iswho you are to the core. Some people never become who they are; they stoptrusting in themselves; they conform to the tastes of others, and they end upwearing a mask that hides their true nature. If you allow yourself to learn whoyou really are by paying attention to that voice and force