of the civil-disobedience campaign he was about to launch. It was to be aprotest against the salt tax. The British held a monopoly on India's production ofsalt, even though it could easily be gathered by anyone on the coast. They alsolevied a rather high tax on it. This was quite a burden for the poorest of the poorin India, for whom salt was their only condiment. Gandhi planned to lead amarch of his followers from his ashram near Bombay (present-day Mumbai) tothe coastal town of Dandi, where he would gather sea salt left on the shore bythe waves and encourage Indians everywhere to do the same. All this could beprevented, he wrote to Irwin, if the viceroy would immediately repeal the salttax. Irwin read this letter with a sense of relief. He imagined the sixty-year-oldGandhi, rather fragile and leaning on a bamboo cane, leading his ragtagfollowers from his ashram--fewer than eighty people--on a two-hundred-milemarch to the sea, where he would gather some salt from the sands. Compared towhat Irwin and his staff had been expecting, the protest seemed almostludicrously small in scale. What was Gandhi thinking? Had he lost touch withreality? Even some members of the Indian National Congress were deeplydisappointed by his choice of protest. In any event, Irwin had to rethink hisstrategy. It simply would not do to harass or arrest this saintly old man and hisfollowers (many of them women). That would look very bad. It would be betterto leave him alone, avoiding the appearance of a heavy-handed response andletting the crisis play out and die down. In the end the ineffectiveness of thiscampaign would somewhat discredit Gandhi, breaking his spell over the Indianmasses. The independence movement might fracture or at least lose somemomentum, leaving England in a stronger position in the long run.As Irwin watched Gandhi's preparations for the march, he became still moreconvinced that he had chosen the right strategy. Gandhi was framing the event asalmost religious in quality, like Lord Buddha's famous march to attain divinewisdom, or Lord Rama's retreat in the Ramayana. His language becameincreasingly apocalyptic: "We are entering upon a life-and-death struggle, a holywar." This seemed to resonate with the poor, who began to flock to Gandhi'sashram to hear him speak. He called in film crews from all over the world torecord the march, as if it were a momentous historical event. Irwin himself was areligious man and saw himself as the representative of a God-fearing, civilizednation. It would redound to England's credit to be seen to leave this saintly manuntouched on his procession to the sea.Gandhi and his followers left their ashram on March 12, 1930. As the grouppassed from village to village, their ranks began to swell. With each passing day,Gandhi was bolder. He called on students throughout India to leave their studiesand join him in the march. Thousands responded. Large crowds gathered alongthe way to see him pass; his speeches to them grew more and moreinflammatory. He seemed to be trying to bait the English into arresting him. OnApril