on the margins of the town. He loved their ritualsand way of life, the sound of their language, and their songs. He seemed to havea knack for learning a foreign language and picked up Spanish rather quickly,gaining a bit of entrée into their world. To him, their culture represented aglimpse of a more interesting world beyond Holtville, but sometimes hedespaired of ever really getting away from his hometown. He began to takedrugs—for the time being, at least, they offered an escape.Then, when he was seventeen, he met Keren Graham, a fellow student at hishigh school, and everything seemed to change. Keren had spent much of herchildhood in northeastern Brazil, where her parents had served as Christianmissionaries. He loved to hang out with her and listen to her stories of life inBrazil. He met her family and became a regular guest at their dinners. Headmired their sense of purpose and dedication to their missionary work. A fewmonths after meeting Keren he became a born-again Christian, and a year laterthey were married. Their goal was to start a family and become missionariesthemselves.Everett graduated from the Moody Bible Institute of Chicago with a degreein Foreign Missions, and in 1976 he and his wife enrolled in the SummerInstitute of Linguistics (SIL)—a Christian organization that instructs futuremissionaries in the necessary linguistic skills to translate the Bible intoindigenous languages and spread the Gospel. After going through the coursework, he and his family (which now included two children) were sent to SIL’sjungle camp in the region of Chiapas, in southern Mexico, to prepare them forthe rigors of missionary life. For a month the family had to live in a village andlearn as best they could the indigenous language, a Mayan dialect. Everettpassed all of the tests with flying colors. Based on his success in the program,the faculty at SIL decided to offer him and his family the greatest challenge of the faculty at SIL decided to offer him and his family the greatest challenge ofthem all—to live in a Pirahã village, deep in the heart of the Amazon.The Pirahã are among the oldest inhabitants of the Amazon. When thePortuguese arrived in the area in the early eighteenth century, most of the tribeslearned their language and adopted many of their ways, but the Pirahã resistedand retreated further into the jungle. They lived in deep isolation, with littlecontact with outsiders. By the time missionaries arrived in their villages in the1950s, there were only some 350 Pirahã still alive, scattered in the area. Themissionaries who tried to learn their language found it impossible. The Pirahãspoke no Portuguese, had no written language, and their words, to Westerners,all sounded alike. SIL had sent a couple in 1967 to learn the language and finallytranslate part of the Bible into Pirahã, but they could make little progress. Aftermore than ten years of struggling with the language, they were driven half-madby the task and wanted to leave. Hearing all of this, Everett was more than happyto accept the challenge. He and his wife were determined