an ambush against the city, behindit."...So Joshua arose, and all the fighting men, to go up to Ai; and Joshuachose thirty thousand mighty men of valor, and sent them forth by night. Andhe commanded them, "Behold, you shall lie in ambush against the city,behind it; do not go very far from the city, but hold yourselves all inreadiness; and I, and all the people who are with me, will approach the city.And when they come out against us, as before, we shall flee before them; andthey will come out after us, till we have drawn them away from the city; forthey will say, 'They are fleeing from us, as before.' So we will flee from them;then you shall rise up from the ambush, and seize the city; for the Lord yourGod will give it into your hand. And when you have taken the city, you shallset the city on fire, doing as the Lord has bidden; see, I have commandedyou."......And when the king of Ai saw this, he and all his people, the men ofthe city, made haste and went out early to the descent toward the Arabah tomeet Israel in battle; but he did not know that there was an ambush againsthim behind the city. And Joshua and all Israel made a pretense of beingbeaten before them, and fled in the direction of the wilderness. So all thepeople who were in the city were called together to pursue them, and as theypursued Joshua they were drawn away from the city. There was not a man leftin Ai or Bethel, who did not go out after Israel; they left the city open, andpursued Israel.... And the ambush rose quickly out of their place, and...theyran and entered the city and took it; and they made haste to set the city onfire. So when the men of Ai looked back, behold, the smoke of the city went upto heaven; and they had no power to flee this way or that, for the people thatfled to the wilderness turned back upon the pursuers. And when Joshua andall Israel saw that the ambush had taken the city, and that the smoke of thecity went up, then they turned back and smote the men of Ai.JOSHUA 8: 1-9, 14-23Controlling the front you present to the world is the most critical deceptiveskill. People respond most directly to what they see, to what is most visible to their eyes. If you seem clever--if you seem deceptive--their guard will be up andit will be impossible to mislead them. Instead you need to present a front thatdoes the opposite--disarms suspicions. The best front here is weakness, whichwill make the other side feel superior to you, so that they either ignore you (andbeing ignored is very valuable at times) or are baited into an aggressive action atthe wrong moment. Once it is too late, once they are committed, they can findout the hard way that you are not so weak after all.In the battles of daily life, making people think