Louis also had an aversion toward warfare,preferring to buy peace, even at a high price, than to fund an army.It was imperative that Charles strike now, before Louis wised up and startedacting more like a king. Charles formed a plan to realize his ambitions and thensome: he would first move into Alsace, between France and Germany, andswallow up the weak kingdoms in the area. Then he would form an alliance withthe great warrior king of England, Edward IV, whom he would persuade to landa large army at Calais. His own army would link up with the English at Reims,in central France, where Edward would be crowned the country's new king. Theduke and Edward would easily dispose of Louis's weak army. The duke couldthen march east, across the Swiss cantons, while Edward would march south.Together they would form the dominant power in Europe. By 1474 everything was in place. Edward had signed on to the plan. Theduke began by marching on the upper Rhine, but just as he began his maneuvers,he learned that a large Swiss army had invaded his home territory of Burgundy.This army was funded by Louis XI himself. By this action Louis and the Swisswere clearly sending a warning to the duke that they would not look kindly onany future invasion of the cantons, but Charles had enough forces in Burgundyto drive the Swiss out. He was not a man to provoke in such a way; both partieswould more than pay for their rash invasion.In the summer of 1475, the English army--the largest yet assembled for aninvasion of France--landed at Calais under the personal leadership of Edward IV.Charles went to meet Edward to finalize their plans and toast their imminentconquests. He then quickly returned to his own troops, which were marchingsouth through Lorraine in preparation for the great linkup with the English forcesat Reims.Suddenly some disturbing news reached Charles in the field: his spies at theFrench court reported that Louis had opened up secret negotiations with Edward.Apparently Louis had persuaded the English king that Charles was using himand could not be trusted. Knowing that England's finances were weak, Louis hadoffered generous terms of peace, amounting to a large annual pension paiddirectly to the king and his court. He had entertained the English with greatfeasts of food and ale. And then, to the duke's utter disgust and amazement,Edward fell for it, signed the treaty, and took his forces home.The duke had barely had time to get over this bitter news when Louissuddenly sent him envoys to broker a long-term truce between France andBurgundy. This was typical of the king--everything he did was inconsistent andcontradictory. What was he thinking? Signing the truce would mean the dukecould now confidently march against the Swiss, knowing that France would notinterfere. Perhaps the king was guided by his great fear of war? Charles happilyapproved the truce.The Swiss were outraged: Louis had been their friend, and now, at themoment of imminent peril, he had abandoned them. But the Swiss were used tofighting on their own;