It is above all the result of persistentself-training and discipline, in fact the fruit of responsible, individualdevelopment. That is what the Japanese means when he speaks of the Hara nodekita hito , the man who has accomplished or finished his belly, that is,himself: for he is mature. If this development does not take place, we have theHara no dekita inai hito, someone who has not developed, who has remainedimmature, who is too young in the psychological sense. The Japanese alsosay Hara no dekita inai hito wa hito no ue ni tatsu koto ga dekinai: the manwho has not finished his belly cannot stand above others (is not fit forleadership).HARA: THE VITAL CENTRE, KARLFRIED GRAF VON DURCKHEIM,1962 Authority: A great part of courage is the courage of having done thething before.--Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-82)REVERSALIt is never good to lose your presence of mind, but you can use those momentswhen it is under threat to know how to act in the future. You must find a way toput yourself in the thick of battle, then watch yourself in action. Look for yourown weaknesses, and think about how to compensate for them. People who havenever lost their presence of mind are actually in danger: someday they will betaken by surprise, and the fall will be harsh. All great generals, from JuliusCaesar to Patton, have at some point lost their nerve and then have been thestronger for winning it back. The more you have lost your balance, the more youwill know about how to right yourself.You do not want to lose your presence of mind in key situations, but it is awise course to find a way to make your enemies lose theirs. Take what throwsyou off balance and impose it on them. Make them act before they are ready.Surprise them--nothing is more unsettling than the unexpected need to act. Findtheir weakness, what makes them emotional, and give them a double dose of it.The more emotional you can make them, the farther you will push them offcourse. CREATE A SENSE OF URGENCY ANDDESPERATIONTHE DEATH-GROUND STRATEGYYou are your own worst enemy. You waste precious time dreaming of the futureinstead of engaging in the present. Since nothing seems urgent to you, you areonly half involved in what you do. The only way to change is through action andoutside pressure. Put yourself in situations where you have too much at stake towaste time or resources--if you cannot afford to lose, you won't. Cut your ties tothe past; enter unknown territory where you must depend on your wits andenergy to see you through. Place yourself on "death ground," where your back isagainst the wall and you have to fight like hell to get out alive.Cortes ran all that aground with the ten ships. Cuba, to be sure, was stillthere, in the blue sea, with its farms, its cows and its tame Indians; but theway to Cuba was no longer through sunny blue waves, rocked in soft idleness,oblivious of danger and endeavor; it was through Motecucuma's court, whichhad to