and only interested in what is happening in the artworld. She would play against these expectations. She transformed herself intoan eloquent lecturer, exposing her work and ideas to the public at large.Audiences would ponder and be intrigued by the discrepancy between herpleasant, composed surface and the complex, challenging content of herdiscourse. She became versed in many fields outside art, combining theseinterests in her work, and in the process exposed herself to a wide range ofpeople outside the art world. She taught herself to mingle equally well with theworkers mining the graphite for her pieces as with gallery dealers—a kind ofcourtier flexibility that made her life as an artist much easier and made itimpossible for her to be typecast. In essence, her public persona became anotherform of art—a material she could cast and transform according to her needs anddesires. It is not generally acknowledged or discussed, but the personality we project tothe world plays a substantial role in our success and in our ascension to mastery. the world plays a substantial role in our success and in our ascension to mastery.Look at the case of Teresita Fernández. If she had merely kept to herself andfocused exclusively on her work, she would have found herself defined by othersin a way that would have hindered her progress. If, after her initial success, shehad boasted about all the hours of practice that went into training herself inmetalwork, people would have seen her as a mere laborer and craftsman. Theywould have inevitably pegged her as the female artist who was using metal as agimmick to promote herself and get attention. They would have foundweaknesses in her character to exploit. The public arena, in art or any endeavor,can be ruthless that way. Able to look at herself and at the art world with a levelof detachment, Fernández intuited the power she could possess by beingconscious of her persona and taking control of the appearance dynamic.Understand: people will tend to judge you based on your outwardappearance. If you are not careful and simply assume that it is best to beyourself, they will begin to ascribe to you all kinds of qualities that have little todo with who you are but correspond to what they want to see. All of this canconfuse you, make you feel insecure, and consume your attention. Internalizingtheir judgments, you will find it hard to focus on your work. Your onlyprotection is to turn this dynamic around by consciously molding theseappearances, creating the image that suits you, and controlling people’sjudgments. At times you will find it appropriate to stand back and create somemystery around you, heightening your presence. At other times you will want tobe more direct and impose a more specific appearance. In general, you neversettle on one image or give people the power to completely figure you out. Youare always one step ahead of the public.You must see the creation of a persona as a key element in socialintelligence, not something evil or demonic. We all wear masks in the socialarena, playing