have made thismistake, you have only two rational solutions: either end the conflict as quicklyas you can, with a strong, violent blow aimed to win, accepting the costs and knowing they are better than a slow and painful death, or cut your losses and quitwithout delay. Never let pride or concern for your reputation pull you farther intothe morass; both will suffer far greater blows by your persistence. Short-termdefeat is better than long-term disaster. Wisdom is knowing when to end.Aut non tentaris, aut perfice (Either don't attempt it, or carry it through to theend).OVID, 43 B.C.-A.D. 17To go too far is as bad as to fall short.--Confucius (551?-479 B.C.)ENDING AS BEGINNINGAs a young man, Lyndon B. Johnson had just one dream: to climb the ladder ofpolitics and become president. When Johnson was in his mid-twenties, the goalwas starting to seem unreachable. A job as the secretary of a Texas congressmanhad allowed him to meet and make an impression on President Franklin D.Roosevelt, who had named him the Texas director of the National YouthAdministration, a post promising excellent political connections. But Texasvoters were extremely loyal, often returning congressmen to their seats fordecades, or until they died. Johnson urgently wanted a seat in Congress. If he didnot get one soon enough, he would be too old to climb the ladder, and he burnedwith ambition.On February 22, 1937, out of the blue, the chance of a lifetime opened up:the Texas congressman James Buchanan suddenly died. The seat he left empty,that of Texas's Tenth District, was a rare opportunity, and the state's eligiblepolitical heavyweights immediately threw their hats in the ring. The manycontenders included Sam Stone, a popular county judge; Shelton Polk, anambitious young Austin attorney; and C. N. Avery, Buchanan's former campaignmanager, the favorite to win. Avery had the support of Tom Miller, mayor ofAustin, the Tenth District's only large city. With Miller's backing he could counton almost enough votes to win the election.Johnson was faced with a terrible predicament. If he entered the race, theodds would be absurdly against him: he was young--only twenty-eight--and inthe district he was unknown and poorly connected. A bad loss would damage hisreputation and set him far back on the road to his long-term goal. If he chose notto run, on the other hand, he might wait ten years for another chance. With all this in mind, he threw caution to the winds and entered the race.Indeed, deepening study of past experience leads to the conclusion thatnations might often have come nearer to their object by taking advantage of alull in the struggle to discuss a settlement than by pursuing the war with theaim of "victory." History reveals, also, that in many cases a beneficial peacecould have been obtained if the statesmen of the warring nations had shownmore understanding of the elements of psychology in their peace "feelers."Their attitude has commonly been too akin to that seen in the typical domesticquarrel; each party is afraid to appear yielding, with the result that when oneof them shows any