initial impressions of the piano or the workenvironment are based on prejudgments, and often contain an element of fear.When we first study the piano, the keyboard looks rather intimidating—we don’tunderstand the relationships between the keys, the chords, the pedals, andeverything else that goes into creating music. In a new job situation, we areignorant of the power relationships between people, the psychology of our boss,the rules and procedures that are considered critical for success. We are confused—the knowledge we need in both cases is over our heads.Although we might enter these situations with excitement about what we canlearn or do with our new skills, we quickly realize how much hard work there isahead of us. The great danger is that we give in to feelings of boredom,impatience, fear, and confusion. We stop observing and learning. The processcomes to a halt.If, on the other hand, we manage these emotions and allow time to take itscourse, something remarkable begins to take shape. As we continue to observeand follow the lead of others, we gain clarity, learning the rules and seeing howthings work and fit together. If we keep practicing, we gain fluency; basic skillsare mastered, allowing us to take on newer and more exciting challenges. Webegin to see connections that were invisible to us before. We slowly gainconfidence in our ability to solve problems or overcome weaknesses through confidence in our ability to solve problems or overcome weaknesses throughsheer persistence.At a certain point, we move from student to practitioner. We try out our ownideas, gaining valuable feedback in the process. We use our expandingknowledge in ways that are increasingly creative. Instead of just learning howothers do things, we bring our own style and individuality into play.As years go by and we remain faithful to this process, yet another leap takesplace—to mastery. The keyboard is no longer something outside of us; it isinternalized and becomes part of our nervous system, our fingertips. In ourcareer, we now have a feel for the group dynamic, the current state of business.We can apply this feel to social situations, seeing deeper into other people andanticipating their reactions. We can make decisions that are rapid and highlycreative. Ideas come to us. We have learned the rules so well that we can now bethe ones to break or rewrite them.In the process leading to this ultimate form of power, we can identify threedistinct phases or levels. The first is the Apprenticeship; the second is theCreative-Active; the third, Mastery. In the first phase, we stand on the outside ofour field, learning as much as we can of the basic elements and rules. We haveonly a partial picture of the field and so our powers are limited. In the secondphase, through much practice and immersion, we see into the inside of themachinery, how things connect with one another, and thus gain a morecomprehensive understanding of the subject. With this comes a new power—theability to experiment and creatively play with the elements involved. In the thirdphase, our degree of knowledge, experience, and focus