Xenophon said, your obstacles arenot rivers or mountains or other people; your obstacle is yourself. If you feel lostand confused, if you lose your sense of direction, if you cannot tell the differencebetween friend and foe, you have only yourself to blame.Think of yourself as always about to go into battle. Everything depends onyour frame of mind and on how you look at the world. A shift of perspective can transform you from a passive and confused mercenary into a motivated andcreative fighter.We are defined by our relationship to other people. As children we developan identity by differentiating ourselves from others, even to the point of pushingthem away, rejecting them, rebelling. The more clearly you recognize who youdo not want to be, then, the clearer your sense of identity and purpose will be.Without a sense of that polarity, without an enemy to react against, you are aslost as the Greek mercenaries. Duped by other people's treachery, you hesitate atthe fatal moment and descend into whining and argument.Focus on an enemy. It can be someone who blocks your path or sabotagesyou, whether subtly or obviously; it can be someone who has hurt you orsomeone who has fought you unfairly; it can be a value or an idea that youloathe and that you see in an individual or group. It can be an abstraction:stupidity, smugness, vulgar materialism. Do not listen to people who say that thedistinction between friend and enemy is primitive and passe. They are justdisguising their fear of conflict behind a front of false warmth. They are trying topush you off course, to infect you with the vagueness that inflicts them. Onceyou feel clear and motivated, you will have space for true friendship and truecompromise. Your enemy is the polar star that guides you. Given that direction,you can enter battle.He that is not with me is against me.--Luke 11:23THE OUTER ENEMYIn the early 1970s, the British political system had settled into a comfortablepattern: the Labour Party would win an election, and then, the next time around,the Conservatives would win. Back and forth the power went, all fairly genteeland civilized. In fact, the two parties had come to resemble one another. Butwhen the Conservatives lost in 1974, some of them had had enough. Wanting toshake things up, they proposed Margaret Thatcher as their leader. The party wasdivided that year, and Thatcher took advantage of the split and won thenomination.I am by nature warlike. To attack is among my instincts. To be able to be anenemy, to be an enemy--that presupposes a strong nature, it is in any event acondition of every strong nature. It needs resistances, consequently it seeksresistances.... The strength of one who attacks has in the opposition he needsa kind of gauge; every growth reveals itself in the seeking out of a powerful opponent--or problem: for a philosopher who is warlike also challengesproblems to a duel. The undertaking is to master, not any resistances thathappen to present themselves, but those against which one has to bring allone's strength, suppleness