revolution backward.Instead they advocated frontal warfare, fighting the Nationalists directly forcontrol of key cities and regions, as the Communists had done in Russia. Slowlythe 28B isolated Mao and stripped him of both political and military power. In1934 they put him under virtual house arrest on a farm in Hunan.Mao's friends and comrades felt he had suffered a dizzying fall from grace.But more troubling than the fall itself was his apparent acceptance of it: he didnot rally supporters to fight back, he stopped publishing, he effectivelydisappeared. Perhaps the 28B had been right: Mao was a coward.That same year the Nationalists--led by General Chiang Kai-shek--launcheda new campaign to destroy the Communists. Their plan was to encircle the RedArmy in its strongholds and kill every last soldier, and this time they seemedlikely to succeed. The 28B fought back bravely, battling to hold on to the fewcities and regions under Communist control, but the Nationalists outnumbered them, were better equipped, and had German military advisers to help them. TheNationalists took city after city and slowly surrounded the Communists.Thousands deserted the Red Army, but finally its remaining soldiers--around100,000 of them--managed to break out of the Nationalist encirclement and headnorthwest. Mao joined them in their flight. Only now did he begin to speak upand question the 28B strategy. They were retreating in a straight line, hecomplained, making it easier for the Nationalists to chase them, and they weremoving too slowly, carrying too many documents, file cabinets, and othertrappings from their old offices. They were acting as if the whole army weremerely moving camp and planning to keep fighting the Nationalists in the sameway, fighting over cities and land. Mao argued that this new march should not bea momentary retreat to safer ground, but something larger. The whole concept ofthe party needed rethinking: instead of copying the Bolsheviks, they shouldcreate a distinctly Chinese revolution based on the peasantry, China's singlelargest population group. To accomplish this they needed time and freedom fromattack. They should head southwest, to the farthest reaches of China, where theenemy could not reach them.Red Army officers began to listen to Mao: his guerrilla tactics had beensuccessful before, and the 28B strategy was clearly failing. They slowly adoptedhis ideas. They traveled more lightly; they moved only at night; they feinted thisway and that to throw the Nationalists off their scent; wherever they went, theyconducted rallies to recruit peasants to their cause. Somehow Mao had becomethe army's de facto leader. Although outnumbered a hundred to one, under hisleadership the Red Army managed to escape the Nationalists and, in October1935, to arrive at the remote reaches of Shan-hsi Province, where it wouldfinally be safe.Six in the fourth place means: The army retreats. No blame. In face of asuperior enemy, with whom it would be hopeless to engage in battle, anorderly retreat is the only correct procedure, because it will save the armyfrom defeat and disintegration. It is by no means a sign of courage orstrength to insist upon engaging in a hopeless struggle regardless ofcircumstances. THE I