a light touch and never seemshrill. Moral battles are for public consumption, and you must constantly gaugetheir effect, lowering or raising the heat accordingly. DENY THEM TARGETSTHE STRATEGY OF THE VOIDThe feeling of emptiness or void--silence, isolation, nonengagement with others--is for most people intolerable. As a human weakness, that fear offers fertileground for a powerful strategy: give your enemies no target to attack, bedangerous but elusive and invisible, then watch as they chase you into the void.This is the essence of guerrilla warfare. Instead of frontal battles, deliverirritating but damaging side attacks and pinprick bites. Frustrated at theirinability to use their strength against your vaporous campaign, your opponentswill grow irrational and exhausted. Make your guerrilla war part of a grandpolitical cause--a people's war--that crests in an irresistible revolution.THE LURE OF THE VOIDIn 1807, Napoleon Bonaparte of France and Czar Alexander I of Russia signed atreaty of alliance. Now the period's two great military powers were linked. Butthis treaty was unpopular with the Russian court--among other things it allowedNapoleon nearly free rein in Poland, Russia's traditional "front yard." Russianaristocrats worked to influence the czar to repudiate it. Before too long,Alexander began to take actions that he knew would displease the French, andby August 1811, Napoleon had had enough: it was time to teach Russia a lesson.He began to lay plans for an invasion. The acquisition of this vast territory to theeast would make him the ruler of the largest empire in history.Some of Napoleon's ministers warned him of the dangers of invading such avast country, but the emperor general felt supremely confident. The Russianarmy was undisciplined, and its officers were squabbling among themselves.Two forces in Lithuania were positioned to block an invasion from the west, butintelligence had revealed that they were unprepared. Napoleon would march intoa central position between these forces and defeat them in detail. He wouldensure victory by mobilizing an army three times larger than any he hadpreviously led: 650,000 men would march into Russia, 450,000 as part of themain attack force, the rest to secure lines of communication and supply. With anarmy this size, he could dominate even the large spaces of Russia, overwhelmingthe feeble enemy not only with his usual brilliant maneuvers but with superiorfirepower. Napoleon may have felt certain of victory, but he was not a reckless man. Asalways, he studied the situation from every angle. He knew, for instance, thatRussian roads were notoriously bad, local food supplies were meager, theclimate tended to extremes of heat and cold, and the vast distances made it muchharder to encircle the enemy--there was always room to retreat. He read up onthe failed invasion of Russia by the king of Sweden, Charles XII, in 1709, andanticipated that the Russians might revert to a scorched-earth policy. His armywould have to be as self-sufficient as possible (the distances were too great tohave extended supply lines from Europe), but, given its size, that would requireincredible planning and organization.To help provide for his army, Napoleon had vast storehouses close to theborders of Russia filled