liberation of mainlandFrance from the Germans.Occupied with other matters and believing de Gaulle's audience to be small,Churchill overlooked the general's indiscretions and allowed him to continue hisbroadcasts--only to find that each new program made it harder to pull the plug.De Gaulle was transforming himself into a celebrity. The performance of theFrench military and government during the blitzkrieg had been widely seen as adisgrace, and in the aftermath no one had stepped forward to alter this perceptionof cowardice--except de Gaulle. His voice radiated confidence, and his face andtall figure stood out in photographs and newsreels. Most important, his appealshad effect: his Fighting France grew from a few hundred soldiers in July 1940 toseveral thousand a month later.Soon de Gaulle was clamoring to lead his forces on a campaign to liberateFrench colonies in Central and Equatorial Africa from the Vichy government.The area was mostly desert and rain forest and was far from the more strategicregions of North Africa on the Mediterranean, but it contained some seaportsthat might be useful, and so Churchill gave de Gaulle his backing. The Frenchforces were able to take Chad, Cameroon, the French Congo, and Gabon withrelative ease.When de Gaulle returned to England late in 1940, he now had thousands ofsquare miles of territory under his control. His command meanwhile had swelledto close to 20,000 soldiers, and his bold venture had captured the imagination of the British public. No longer the low-order general who had sought refugemonths before, he was now a military and political leader. And de Gaulle wasequal to this change in status: he was now making demands of the English andacting in a rather aggressive manner. Churchill was beginning to regret givinghim so much leeway.The following year British intelligence discovered that de Gaulle had beenmaking important contacts among the growing French Resistance movement.The Resistance, which was dominated by communists and socialists, had startedoff chaotic, lacking a coherent structure. De Gaulle had personally chosen anofficial in the prewar socialist government, Jean Moulin, who had come toEngland in October 1941, to help unify this underground force. Of all deGaulle's maneuverings, this was the one that could benefit the Allies mostdirectly; an efficient Resistance would be invaluable. So, with Churchill'sblessing, Moulin was parachuted into southern France in early 1942.Chien/Development (Gradual Progress)This hexagram is made up of Sun (wood, penetration) above, i.e., without,and Ken (mountain, stillness) below, i.e., within. A tree on a mountaindevelops slowly according to the law of its being and consequently standsfirmly rooted. This gives the idea of a development that proceeds gradually,step by step. The attributes of the trigrams also point to this: within istranquility, which guards against precipitate actions, and without ispenetration, which makes development and progress possible. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.By the end of that year, the increasingly imperious de Gaulle had sooffended many within the Allied governments and armies--particularly U.S.President Franklin D. Roosevelt--that a plan was discussed to replace him withsomeone more malleable. The Americans believed they had found the perfectman for the job: General Henri Giraud, one