here and there to say something else. If you arewriting a novel, for instance, you might put your dangerous opinions in themouth of the villain but express them with such energy and color that theybecome more interesting than the speeches of the hero. Not everyone willunderstand your innuendos and layers of meaning, but some certainly will, atleast those with the proper discernment; and mixed messages will excite youraudience: indirect forms of expression--silence, innuendo, loaded details,deliberate blunders--make people feel as if they were participating, uncovering the meaning on their own. The more that people participate in thecommunication process, the more deeply they internalize its ideas.Irony. --Irony is in place only as a pedagogic tool, employed by a teacher indealing with any kind of pupil: its objective is humiliation, making ashamed,but of that salutary sort which awakens good resolutions and inspires respectand gratitude towards him who treats us thus of the kind we feel for aphysician. The ironist poses as unknowing, and does so so well that the pupilsin discussion with him are deceived, grow bold in their belief they know betterand expose themselves in every way; they abandon circumspection and revealthemselves as they are--up to the moment when the lamp they have beenholding up to the face of the teacher sends its beams very humiliatingly backon to themselves.--Where such a relationship as that between teacher andpupil does not obtain, irony is ill-breeding, a vulgar affectation. All ironicalwriters depend on the foolish species of men who together with the authorwould like to feel themselves superior to all others and who regard the authoras the mouthpiece of their presumption.--Habituation to irony, moreover, likehabituation to sarcasm, spoils the character, to which it gradually lends thequality of a malicious and jeering superiority: in the end one comes toresemble a snapping dog which has learned how to laugh but forgotten howto bite.HUMAN, ALL TOO HUMAN, FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1878In putting this strategy into practice, avoid the common mistake of strainingto get people's attention by using a form that is shocking or strange. Theattention you get this way will be superficial and short-lived. By using a formthat alienates a wide public, you narrow your audience; you will end uppreaching to the converted. As the case of Machiavelli demonstrates, using aconventional form is more effective in the long run, because it attracts a largeraudience. Once you have that audience, you can insinuate your real (and evenshocking) content through details and subtext.In war almost everything is judged by its result. If a general leads his armyto defeat, his noble intentions do not matter; nor does the fact that unforeseenfactors may have thrown him off course. He lost; no excuse will do. One ofMachiavelli's most revolutionary ideas was to apply this standard to politics:what matters is not what people say or intend but the results of their actions,whether power is increased or decreased. This is what Machiavelli called the"effective truth"--the real truth, in other words, what happens in fact, not inwords or theories. In examining the career of a pope, for