the first few years he grounded himself in the rigors of engineering—all ofthe mathematics and physics required for the field. But as he progressed, hefound himself returning to that paradox that he had been obsessed with inchildhood—how to express movement and change. In architecture, the goldenrule was that buildings had to be stable and stationary. Calatrava felt the desireto break up this rigid convention. For his PhD dissertation, he decided to explorethe possibilities of bringing actual movement into architecture. Inspired byNASA and its designs for space travel, as well as the folding bird wings NASA and its designs for space travel, as well as the folding bird wingsdesigned by Leonardo da Vinci, Calatrava chose as his topic the foldability ofstructures—how through advanced engineering structures could move andtransform themselves.Completing his dissertation in 1981, he finally entered the work world—afterfourteen years of a university apprenticeship in art, architecture, andengineering. In the coming years he would experiment in designing new kinds ofcollapsible doors, windows, and roofs that would move and open up in newways, altering the shape of the building. He designed a drawbridge in BuenosAires that moved outward instead of up. In 1996 he took all of this a step furtherwith his design and construction of an extension to the Milwaukee Art Museum.It consisted of a long glass-and-steel reception hall with an eighty-foot ceiling,all shaded by an enormous moveable sunscreen on the roof. The screen had tworibbed panels that opened and closed like the wings of a giant seagull, puttingthe entire edifice into motion, and giving the sense of a building that could takeflight. We humans live in two worlds. First, there is the outer world of appearances—all of the forms of things that captivate our eye. But hidden from our view isanother world—how these things actually function, their anatomy orcomposition, the parts working together and forming the whole. This secondworld is not so immediately captivating. It is harder to understand. It is notsomething visible to the eye, but only to the mind that glimpses the reality. Butthis “how” of things is just as poetic once we understand it—it contains thesecret of life, of how things move and change.This division between the “how” and the “what” can be applied to almosteverything around us—we see the machine, not how it works; we see a group ofpeople producing something as a business, not how the group is structured orhow the products are manufactured and distributed. (In a similar fashion, wetend to be mesmerized by people’s appearances, not the psychology behind whatthey do or say.) As Calatrava discovered, in overcoming this division, incombining the “how” and the “what” of architecture, he gained a much deeper,or rather more rounded knowledge of the field. He grasped a larger portion ofthe reality that goes into making buildings. This allowed him to create somethinginfinitely more poetic, to stretch the boundaries, to break the conventions ofarchitecture itself.Understand: we live in the world of a sad separation that began some fivehundred years ago when art and science split apart. Scientists and