saw it as more in theirinterest to gain Rome's favor than to ally themselves elsewhere. Rome held outthe prospect of great power, wealth, and protection, while isolation from Romewas dangerous. And so the once proud members of the Latin League nowcompeted against one another for Rome's attention.Divide and rule is a powerful strategy for governing any group. It is basedon a key principle: within any organization people naturally form smaller groupsbased on mutual self-interest--the primitive desire to find strength in numbers.These subgroups form power bases that, left unchecked, will threaten theorganization as a whole. The formation of parties and factions can be a leader'sgreatest threat, for in time these factions will naturally work to secure their owninterests before those of the greater group. The solution is to divide to rule. To doso you must first establish yourself as the center of power; individuals mustknow they need to compete for your approval. There has to be more to be gainedby pleasing the leader than by trying to form a power base within the group."Do not think that I have come to bring peace on earth; I have not come tobring peace, but a sword. For I have come to set a man against his father,and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against hermother-in-law; and a man's foes will be those of his own household. He wholoves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and he who lovesson or daughter more than me is not worthy of me; and he who does not takehis cross and follow me is not worthy of me."MATTHEW 10:34When Elizabeth I became queen, England was a nation divided. Theremnants of feudalism entailed many competing power centers, and the courtitself was full of factions. Elizabeth's solution was to weaken the nobility bydeliberately pitting one family against another. At the same time, she occupiedthe center, making herself a symbol of England itself, the hub around which everything revolved. Within the court, too, she made sure that no individual--except of course herself--gained ascendancy. When she saw that first RobertDudley and then the Earl of Essex believed themselves her favorites, she quicklycut them loose.The temptation to maintain a favorite is understandable but dangerous.Better to rotate your stars, occasionally making each one fall. Bring in peoplewith different viewpoints and encourage them to fight it out. You can justify thisas a healthy form of democracy, but the effect is that while those below you fightto be heard, you rule.The film director Alfred Hitchcock faced enemies on all sides--writers, setdesigners, actors, producers, marketers--any of them quite capable of puttingtheir egos before the quality of the film. Writers wanted to show off their literaryskills, actors wanted to look like stars, producers and marketers wanted themovie to be commercial--the whole crew had competing interests. Hitchcock'ssolution, like Queen Elizabeth's, was to take the central position, in a variant ofdivide and rule. His carefully crafted role as a public celebrity was part of this:his movies' publicity campaigns always involved him as spokesperson,