practice harder andmove faster through the process, all of this stemming from the intensity of theirdesire to learn and from the deep connection they feel to their field of study. Andat the core of this intensity of effort is in fact a quality that is genetic and inborn—not talent or brilliance, which is something that must be developed, but rathera deep and powerful inclination toward a particular subject. This inclination is a reflection of a person’s uniqueness. This uniqueness isnot something merely poetic or philosophical—it is a scientific fact thatgenetically, every one of us is unique; our exact genetic makeup has neverhappened before and will never be repeated. This uniqueness is revealed to usthrough the preferences we innately feel for particular activities or subjects ofstudy. Such inclinations can be toward music or mathematics, certain sports orgames, solving puzzle-like problems, tinkering and building, or playing withwords.With those who stand out by their later mastery, they experience thisinclination more deeply and clearly than others. They experience it as an innercalling. It tends to dominate their thoughts and dreams. They find their way, byaccident or sheer effort, to a career path in which this inclination can flourish.This intense connection and desire allows them to withstand the pain of theprocess—the self-doubts, the tedious hours of practice and study, the inevitablesetbacks, the endless barbs from the envious. They develop a resiliency andconfidence that others lack.In our culture we tend to equate thinking and intellectual powers withsuccess and achievement. In many ways, however, it is an emotional quality thatseparates those who master a field from the many who simply work at a job. Ourlevels of desire, patience, persistence, and confidence end up playing a muchlarger role in success than sheer reasoning powers. Feeling motivated andenergized, we can overcome almost anything. Feeling bored and restless, ourminds shut off and we become increasingly passive.In the past, only elites or those with an almost superhuman amount of energyand drive could pursue a career of their choice and master it. A man was borninto the military, or groomed for the government, chosen among those of theright class. If he happened to display a talent and desire for such work it wasmostly a coincidence. Millions of people who were not part of the right socialclass, gender, and ethnic group were rigidly excluded from the possibility ofpursuing their calling. Even if people wanted to follow their inclinations, accessto the information and knowledge pertaining to that particular field wascontrolled by elites. That is why there are relatively few Masters in the past andwhy they stand out so much.These social and political barriers, however, have mostly disappeared. Todaywe have the kind of access to information and knowledge that past Masterscould only dream about. Now more than ever, we have the capacity and freedomto move toward the inclination that all of us possess as part of our geneticuniqueness. It is time that the word “genius” becomes demystified and de-rarefied. We are all closer than we think to such intelligence. (The word rarefied. We are all