realm, she was able to apply her skills to her other great interest—autism.Understand: achieving mastery in life often depends on those first steps thatwe take. It is not simply a question of knowing deeply our Life’s Task, but alsoof having a feel for our own ways of thinking and for perspectives that areunique to us. A deep level of empathy for animals or for certain types of peoplemay not seem like a skill or an intellectual strength, but in truth it is. Empathyplays an enormous role in learning and knowledge. Even scientists, renownedfor their objectivity, regularly engage in thinking in which they momentarilyidentify with their subject. Other qualities we might possess, such as a penchantfor visual forms of thinking, represent other possible strengths, not weaknesses.The problem is that we humans are deep conformists. Those qualities thatseparate us are often ridiculed by others, or criticized by teachers. People with ahigh visual sense are often labeled as dyslexic, for example. Because of these judgments, we might see our strengths as disabilities and try to work aroundthem in order to fit in. But anything that is peculiar to our makeup is preciselywhat we must pay the deepest attention to and lean on in our rise to mastery.Mastery is like swimming—it is too difficult to move forward when we arecreating our own resistance or swimming against the current. Know yourstrengths and move with them.3. Transform yourself through practice—The Fingertip FeelAs narrated in chapter 2 (page 75), after graduating from the Citadel in 1981,Cesar Rodriguez decided to enter the pilot training program for the United StatesAir Force. But soon he had to confront a harsh reality—he was not naturallygifted for flying a jet plane. Among those in the program were some who wereknown as “golden boys.” They seemed to have a knack for flying at high speeds.They were in their element. From the very beginning Rodriguez loved to fly, andhe had ambitions to become a fighter pilot, the most elite and coveted positionwithin the air force. But he would never reach such a goal unless he somehowmanaged to raise himself up to the skill level of the golden boys. His problemwas that he was quickly overwhelmed by the glut of information that a pilot hadto process. The key was to learn how to take a scan pattern of all the instruments—a quick reading here and there—while maintaining a feel for one’s overallposition in the sky. Losing situational awareness could prove fatal. For him, thisscanning ability could only come through endless hours of practice on thesimulator and in flying, until it became relatively automatic.Rodriguez had played sports in high school and he knew the value ofpractice and repetition, but this was a lot more complex than any sport or anyskill he had ever tried to master. As soon as he became comfortable with theinstruments, he would be faced with the daunting task of learning to executevarious flying maneuvers (like rolls), and to develop a feel for the exact speedsneeded to enter them. All of this required