school and practical experience. In all of these cases, itwill help you to think in terms of these steps, although you may need to giveadded weight to a particular one depending on the nature of your field.Step One: Deep Observation—The Passive ModeWhen you enter a career or new environment, you move into a world with itsown rules, procedures, and social dynamic. For decades or even centuries,people have compiled knowledge of how to get things done in a particular field,each generation improving on the past. In addition, every workplace has its ownconventions, rules of behavior, and work standards. There are also all kinds ofpower relationships that exist between individuals. All of this represents a realitythat transcends your individual needs and desires. And so your task uponentering this world is to observe and absorb its reality as deeply as possible.The greatest mistake you can make in the initial months of yourapprenticeship is to imagine that you have to get attention, impress people, andprove yourself. These thoughts will dominate your mind and close it off from thereality around you. Any positive attention you receive is deceptive; it is not based on your skills or anything real, and it will turn against you. Instead, youwill want to acknowledge the reality and submit to it, muting your colors andkeeping in the background as much as possible, remaining passive and givingyourself the space to observe. You will also want to drop any preconceptionsyou might have about this world you are entering. If you impress people in thesefirst months, it should be because of the seriousness of your desire to learn, notbecause you are trying to rise to the top before you are ready.You will be observing two essential realities in this new world. First, youwill observe the rules and procedures that govern success in this environment—in other words, “this is how we do things here.” Some of these rules will becommunicated to you directly—generally the ones that are superficial andlargely a matter of common sense. You must pay attention to these and observethem, but what is of more interest are the rules that are unstated and are part ofthe underlying work culture. These concern style and values that are consideredimportant. They are often a reflection of the character of the man or woman ontop.You can observe such rules by looking at those who are on their way up inthe hierarchy, who have a golden touch. More tellingly, you can observe thosewho are more awkward, who have been chastised for particular mistakes or evenbeen fired. Such examples serve as negative trip wires: do things this way andyou will suffer.The second reality you will observe is the power relationships that existwithin the group: who has real control; through whom do all communicationsflow; who is on the rise and who is on the decline. (For more on this element ofsocial intelligence, please see chapter 4.) These procedural and political rulesmay be dysfunctional or counterproductive, but your job is not to moralize aboutthis or complain, but merely to understand them,