and how the brainitself functions. They can be distilled into one overarching principle for theApprenticeship Phase, and a process that loosely follows three steps.The principle is simple and must be engraved deeply in your mind: the goalof an apprenticeship is not money, a good position, a title, or a diploma, butrather the transformation of your mind and character—the first transformationon the way to mastery. You enter a career as an outsider. You are naïve and fullof misconceptions about this new world. Your head is full of dreams andfantasies about the future. Your knowledge of the world is subjective, based onemotions, insecurities, and limited experience. Slowly, you will ground yourselfin reality, in the objective world represented by the knowledge and skills thatmake people successful in it. You will learn how to work with others and handlecriticism. In the process you will transform yourself from someone who isimpatient and scattered into someone who is disciplined and focused, with amind that can handle complexity. In the end, you will master yourself and all ofyour weaknesses.This has a simple consequence: you must choose places of work andpositions that offer the greatest possibilities for learning. Practical knowledge isthe ultimate commodity, and is what will pay you dividends for decades to come—far more than the paltry increase in pay you might receive at some seeminglylucrative position that offers fewer learning opportunities. This means that youmove toward challenges that will toughen and improve you, where you will getthe most objective feedback on your performance and progress. You do notchoose apprenticeships that seem easy and comfortable.In this sense you must see yourself as following in the footsteps of Charles Darwin. You are finally on your own, on a voyage in which you will craft yourown future. It is the time of youth and adventure—of exploring the world withan open mind and spirit. In fact, whenever you must learn a new skill or alteryour career path later in life, you reconnect with that youthful, adventurous partof yourself. Darwin could have played it safe, collecting what was necessary,and spending more time on board studying instead of actively exploring. In thatcase, he would not have become an illustrious scientist, but just anothercollector. He constantly looked for challenges, pushing himself past his comfortzone. He used danger and difficulties as a way to measure his progress. Youmust adopt such a spirit and see your apprenticeship as a kind of journey inwhich you will transform yourself, rather than as a drab indoctrination into thework world.The Apprenticeship Phase—The Three Steps or ModesWith the principle outlined above guiding you in your choices, you must think ofthree essential steps in your apprenticeship, each one overlapping the other.These steps are: Deep Observation (The Passive Mode), Skills Acquisition (ThePractice Mode), and Experimentation (The Active Mode). Keep in mind that anapprenticeship can come in many different forms. It can happen at one placeover several years, or it can consist of several different positions in differentplaces, a kind of compound apprenticeship involving many different skills. It caninclude a mix of graduate