are.To see ourselves objectively, we must follow the example of TempleGrandin. We can begin this process by looking at negative events in our past—people sabotaging our work, bosses firing us for no logical reason, nastypersonal battles with colleagues. It is best to start with events that are at leastseveral months old, and thus not so emotionally charged. In dissecting theseoccurrences, we must focus on what we did that either triggered or worsened thedynamic. In looking at several such incidents, we might begin to see a patternthat indicates a particular flaw in our character. Seeing these events from theperspective of the other people involved will loosen the lock our emotions haveon our self-image, and help us understand the role we play in our own mistakes.We can also elicit opinions from those we trust about our behavior, makingcertain to first reassure them that we want their criticisms. Slowly, in this way,we can develop increasing self-detachment, which will yield us the other half ofsocial intelligence—the ability to see ourselves as we really are.4. Suffer fools gladlyIn 1775, the twenty-six-year-old German poet and novelist Johann WolfgangGoethe (later von Goethe) was invited to spend some time at the court ofWeimar by its eighteen-year-old Duke Karl August. The duke’s family had beentrying to transform the isolated and less renowned duchy of Weimar into aliterary center, and the addition of Goethe to their court would be a great coup.Shortly after his arrival, the duke offered him a prominent position in his cabinetand the role of personal adviser, and so Goethe decided to stay. The poet sawthis as a way to broaden his experience in the world and perhaps apply someenlightened ideas to the government of Weimar.Goethe came from a solid middle-class background, and had never reallyspent much time around nobility. Now, as a prized member of the duke’s court,he was to have his apprenticeship in aristocratic manners. After only a few shortmonths, however, he found court life quite unbearable. The lives of the courtiersrevolved around rituals of card games, shooting parties, and the exchanging ofendless bits of gossip. A passing remark by Herr X, or the failure of Frau Y toshow up at a soirée, would be blown up into something of great importance, andcourtiers would strain to interpret the meaning of it. After attending the theaterthey would chat endlessly about who had shown up accompanied by whom, ordissect the look of the new actress on the scene, but they would never discuss theplay itself.In conversation, if Goethe dared to discuss some reform he was considering, suddenly a courtier would get all up in arms about what this might mean for aparticular minister, and how it could jeopardize his position within the court, andGoethe’s idea would get lost in the ensuing heated dialog. Even though he wasthe author of the most famous novel of the day, The Sorrows of Young Werther,nobody seemed particularly interested in his opinions. They found it moreinteresting to tell the celebrated novelist their own ideas and to see his reaction.In the end, their