losing a war.We face a similar dynamic in our daily battles in life. We are socialcreatures, and our happiness, even our survival, depends on our ability tounderstand what other people are intending and thinking. But because we cannotget inside their heads, we are forced to read the signs in their outward behavior.We ponder their past actions as indications of what they might do in the future.We examine their words, their looks, the tone in their voice, certain actions thatseem laden with significance. Everything a person does in the social realm is asign of some sort. At the same time, we are aware that a thousand pairs of eyesare in turn watching us, reading us, and trying to sense our intentions.It is a never-ending battle over appearance and perception. If other peoplecan read what we are up to, predict what we are going to do, while we have noclue about them, they have a constant advantage over us that they cannot helpbut exploit. That is why, in the social realm, we learn from an early age to usedeception--we tell others what they want to hear, concealing our real thoughts,hedging with the truth, misleading to make a better impression. Many of thesedeceptions are entirely unconscious.Since appearances are critical and deception is inevitable, what you want isto elevate your game--to make your deceptions more conscious and skillful. Youneed the power to cloak your maneuvers, to keep people off balance bycontrolling the perceptions they have of you and the signs you give out. In thissense there is a lot you can learn from the military arts of deception, which arebased on timeless laws of psychology and are infinitely applicable to the battlesof daily life.To master this art, you must embrace its necessity and find creative pleasurein manipulating appearances--as if you were directing a film. The following arethe six main forms of military deception, each with its own advantage. The false front. This is the oldest form of military deception. It originallyinvolved making the enemy believe that one was weaker than in fact was thecase. A leader would feign a retreat, say, baiting a trap for the enemy to rushinto, luring it into an ambush. This was a favorite tactic of Sun-tzu's. Theappearance of weakness often brings out people's aggressive side, making themdrop strategy and prudence for an emotional and violent attack. When Napoleonfound himself outnumbered and in a vulnerable strategic position before the Battle of Austerlitz, he deliberately showed signs of being panicked, indecisive,and scared. The enemy armies abandoned their strong position to attack him andrushed into a trap. It was his greatest victory.And the Lord said to Joshua, "Do not fear or be dismayed; take all thefighting men with you, and arise, go up to Ai; see, I have given into your handthe king of Ai, and his people, his city, and his land; and you shall do to Aiand its king as you did to Jericho and its king; only its spoil and its cattle youshall take as booty for yourselves; lay