his writing.What made those twenty years qualitatively different from those of anordinary person was the intensity of his attention. He did not simply read books—he took them apart, rigorously analyzed them, and learned valuable lessons toapply to his own life. All of this reading implanted in his brain various styles thatwould enrich his own writing style. He did not merely socialize—he strained tounderstand people at their core and to uncover their secret motivations. He didnot just analyze his own psychology, but went so deeply into the various levelsof consciousness he found within himself that he developed insights about thefunctioning of memory that fore-shadowed many discoveries in neuroscience.He did not merely translate, but strove to inhabit the mind of Ruskin himself. Inthe end, he even used the death of his mother to intensify his development. Withher gone, he would have to write himself out of his depression, and find a way tore-create the feelings between them in the book he was to write. As he laterdescribed it, all of these experiences were like seeds, and once he had started hisnovel he was like a gardener tending and cultivating the plants that had takenroot so many years before.Through his own efforts, he transformed himself from an apprentice to amature writer and translator, and from there to a novelist who figured out whatto write about, which voice to assume, and how to attack his subject. At somepoint after he began writing his novel, he underwent a third transformation.Memories and ideas came flooding into his mind. Even as the book keptexpanding, he could intuit its overall shape and the relationships between themany tiles of the mosaic. This immense novel had a living, breathing dynamicthat was now completely alive within him. He was inside his characters and thewhole slice of French society he was writing about. More important, he wascompletely inside the narrator (who is Proust himself), and in his novel it’s as ifwe are literally, from the inside, experiencing the thoughts and sensations ofanother person. He was able to achieve this effect through the intuitive powershe had gained from close to thirty years of perpetual work and analysis.Like Proust, you must also maintain a sense of destiny, and feel continuouslyconnected to it. You are unique, and there is a purpose to your uniqueness. Youmust see every setback, failure, or hardship as a trial along the way, as seeds thatare being planted for further cultivation, if you know how to grow them. Nomoment is wasted if you pay attention and learn the lessons contained in everyexperience. By constantly applying yourself to the subject that suits your experience. By constantly applying yourself to the subject that suits yourinclinations and attacking it from many different angles, you are simplyenriching the ground for these seeds to take root. You may not see this process inthe present, but it is happening. Never losing your connection to your Life’sTask, you will unconsciously hit upon the right choices in your life. Over time,mastery will come to you.The high-level intuitive powers we