ordered the blocking of all crossings, and thus isolated his intendedvictim from his rear depots and reduced his chances of reinforcement.Thereafter, Napoleon advanced relentlessly toward the foe's army, offeringhim only two alternatives--to fight for survival on ground not of his ownchoosing, or to surrender. The advantages afforded by such a strategy areobvious. The enemy army would be both taken by surprise and almostcertainly demoralized by the sudden apparition of the enemy army in its rear,cutting its communications.THE CAMPAIGNS OF NAPOLEON, DAVID G. CHANDLER, 1966 TURNING THE FLANKIn 1793, Louis XIV and his wife, Marie Antoinette, the king and queen ofFrance, were beheaded by order of the new government put in place after theFrench Revolution. Marie Antoinette was the daughter of Maria Theresa, theempress of Austria, and as a result of her death the Austrians became determinedenemies of France. Early in 1796 they prepared to invade the country fromnorthern Italy, which at the time was an Austrian possession.In April of that year, the twenty-six-year-old Napoleon Bonaparte was givencommand of the French army in Italy and charged with a simple mission: toprevent these Austrian armies from entering France. Under Napoleon, for thefirst time since the revolution not only were the French able to hold a defensiveposition, but they successfully went on the offensive, pushing the Austrianssteadily east. Shocking as it was to lose to the revolutionary army, it wasdownright humiliating to be defeated by an unknown general on his firstcampaign. For six months the Austrians sent armies to defeat Napoleon, but heforced each one to retreat into the fortress of Mantua, until finally this strongholdwas crammed with Austrian soldiers.Leaving a force at Mantua to pin down the Austrians, Napoleon establishedhis base to the north, in the pivotal city of Verona. If the Austrians were to winthe war, they would somehow have to push him out of Verona and free up thestarving soldiers trapped in Mantua. And they were running out of time.In October 1796, Baron Joseph d'Alvintzi was given command of some50,000 Austrian soldiers and the urgent mission of expelling the French fromVerona. An experienced commander and clever strategist, d'Alvintzi studiedNapoleon's Italian campaign carefully and came to respect his enemy. To defeatthis brilliant young general, the Austrians would have to be more flexible, andd'Alvintzi thought he had the solution: he would divide his army into twocolumns, one under himself, the other under the Russian general PaulDavidovich. The columns would separately march south, converging at Verona.At the same time, d'Alvintzi would launch a campaign of deception to makeNapoleon think that Davidovich's army was small (it was in fact 18,000 menstrong), merely a holding force to protect the Austrian lines of communication. IfNapoleon underestimated Davidovich, the Russian general would face lessopposition and his way to Verona would be smooth. D'Alvintzi's plan was to trapNapoleon between the jaws of these two armies.The Austrians entered northern Italy in early November. To d'Alvintzi'sdelight, Napoleon seemed to have fallen for their trick; he sent a relatively light force against Davidovich, who promptly gave the French in Italy their