behavior on their part—for instance, a blustery front, an overly friendlymanner, a constant penchant for jokes. You will often notice that they wear thislike a mask to hide the opposite, to distract others from the truth. They areblustery because they are inwardly very insecure; they are overly friendlybecause they are secretly ambitious and aggressive; or they joke to hide a mean-spiritedness.In general, you are reading and decoding every possible sign—including theclothes they wear and the organized or disorganized nature of their workspace.The choice of mate or partner can be quite eloquent too, particularly if it seemsslightly inconsistent with the character they try to project. In this choice they canreveal unmet needs from childhood, a desire for power and control, a low self-image, and other qualities they normally seek to disguise. What might seem likesmall issues—chronically being late, insufficient attention to detail, not returningany favors on your part—are signs of something deeper about their character.These are patterns you must pay attention to. Nothing is too small to notice.You must avoid the common mistake of making judgments based on yourinitial impressions of people. Such impressions can sometimes tell yousomething, but more often they are misleading. There are several reasons forthis. In your initial encounter you tend to be nervous, less open, and moreinward. You are not really paying attention. Furthermore, people have trainedthemselves to appear a certain way; they have a persona they use in public thatacts like a second skin to protect them. Unless you are incredibly perceptive, youwill tend to mistake the mask for the reality. For instance, the man you judged tobe so powerful and assertive may be merely masking his fears and may have farless power than you first imagined. Often it is the quiet ones, those who give outless at first glance, who hide greater depths, and who secretly wield greaterpower.What you want is a picture of a person’s character over time, which will giveyou a far more accurate sense of their true character than any first impressioncould. So restrain yourself from the natural tendency to judge right away, and letthe passing months reveal more and more about who people are, as you getbetter at reading them.In the end, your goal is to identify and pierce through to what makes peopleunique, to understand the character and values that lie at their cores. The moreyou can fathom about people’s pasts and their way of thinking about things, themore deeply you can enter into their spirit. In this way you will be able tounderstand their motivations, foresee their actions, and recognize how best towin them to your side. You will no longer be operating in the dark. win them to your side. You will no longer be operating in the dark.You will encounter thousands of various individuals in your life, and theability to see them as they are will prove invaluable. Keep in mind, however,that people are in a state of continual flux. You must not let your ideas aboutthem harden into a set impression. You are continually observing