around the edges of your concept, loosen up your hold onconsciousness, and allow images to come to you.Early in his career, Michael Faraday took lessons in drawing and painting.He did this so he could recreate the experiments he had witnessed at variouslectures. But he discovered that drawing helped him think in many ways. Thehand-brain connection is something deeply wired within us; when we attempt tosketch something we must observe it closely, gaining a feel through our fingersof how to bring it to life. Such practice can help you think in visual terms andfree your mind from its constant verbalizations. To Leonardo da Vinci, drawingand thinking were synonymous.One day, the writer and polymath Johann Wolfgang von Goethe made acurious discovery about the creative process of his friend, the great Germanwriter Friedrich Schiller. Paying a visit to Schiller’s home, he was told that thewriter was not in but would return shortly. Goethe decided to wait for him andsat down at Schiller’s writing desk. He began to be assailed by a strange feelingof faintness, his head slowly spinning. If he moved to the window, the sensationwent away. Suddenly, he realized that some kind of weird and nauseating smellwas emanating from a drawer of the desk. When he opened it he was shocked tosee that it was full of rotten apples, some in an extreme state of decay. WhenSchiller’s wife came into the room, he asked her about the apples and the stench.She told Goethe that she herself filled the drawers with these apples on a regularbasis—her husband delighted in the smell and he found he did his most creativework while inhaling the fumes.Other artists and thinkers have devised similar peculiar aids to their creativeprocess. When doing his deepest thinking about the theory of relativity, AlbertEinstein liked to hold on to a rubber ball that he would periodically squeeze intandem with the straining of his mind. In order to work, the writer SamuelJohnson required that he had on his desk a cat, which he would periodicallystroke to make it purr, and a slice of orange. Supposedly only these varioussensual cues could properly stimulate him for his work.These examples are all related to the phenomenon of synesthesia—momentsin which the stimulation of one sense provokes another. For instance, we hear aparticular sound and it makes us think of a color. Studies have indicated thatsynesthesia is far more prevalent among artists and high-level thinkers. Somehave speculated that synesthesia represents a high degree of interconnectivity in have speculated that synesthesia represents a high degree of interconnectivity inthe brain, which also plays a role in intelligence. Creative people do not simplythink in words, but use all of their senses, their entire bodies in the process. Theyfind sense cues that stimulate their thoughts on many levels—whether it be thesmell of something strong, or the tactile feel of a rubber ball. What this means isthat they are more open to alternative ways of thinking, creating, and sensing theworld. They allow themselves a broader range of sense experience. You mustexpand as well