the palace of great Zeus Came Argive Hera and Athena theProtector, Having stopped brutal Ares from butchering men. THE ILIAD, HOMER, CIRCA NINTH CENTURY B.C.Each chapter is a strategy aimed at solving a particular problem that you willoften encounter. Such problems include fighting with an unmotivated armybehind you; wasting energy by battling on too many fronts; feeling overwhelmedby friction, the discrepancy between plans and reality; getting into situations youcannot get out of. You can read the chapters that apply to the particular problemof the moment. Better still, you can read all of the strategies, absorb them,allowing them to become part of your mental arsenal. Even when you are tryingto avoid a war, not fight one, many of these strategies are worth knowing fordefensive purposes and for making yourself aware of what the other side mightbe up to. In any event, they are not intended as doctrine or formulas to berepeated but as aids to judgment in the heat of battle, seeds that will take root inyou and help you think for yourself, developing the latent strategist within.Against war it can be said: it makes the victor stupid, the defeated malicious.In favour of war: through producing these two effects it barbarizes andtherefore makes more natural; it is the winter or hibernation time of culture,mankind emerges from it stronger for good and evil.FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1844-1900The strategies themselves are culled from the writings and practices of thegreatest generals in history (Alexander the Great, Hannibal, Genghis Khan,Napoleon Bonaparte, Shaka Zulu, William Techumseh Sherman, ErwinRommel, Vo Nguyen Giap) as well as the greatest strategists (Sun-tzu,Miyamoto Musashi, Carl von Clausewitz, Ardant du Picq, T. E. Lawrence,Colonel John Boyd). They range from the basic strategies of classical warfare tothe dirty, unconventional strategies of modern times. The book is divided intofive parts: self-directed war (how to prepare your mind and spirit for battle);organizational war (how to structure and motivate your army); defensive war;offensive war; and unconventional (dirty) war. Each chapter is illustrated with historical examples, not only from warfare itself but from politics (MargaretThatcher), culture (Alfred Hitchcock), sports (Muhammad Ali), business (JohnD. Rockefeller), showing the intimate connection between the military and thesocial. These strategies can be applied to struggles of every scale: organizedwarfare, business battles, the politics of a group, even personal relationships.Without war human beings stagnate in comfort and affluence and lose thecapacity for great thoughts and feelings, they become cynical and subsideinto barbarism.FYODOR DOSTOYEVSKY, 1821-1881Finally, strategy is an art that requires not only a different way of thinkingbut an entirely different approach to life itself. Too often there is a chasmbetween our ideas and knowledge on the one hand and our actual experience onthe other. We absorb trivia and information that takes up mental space but gets usnowhere. We read books that divert us but have little relevance to our daily lives.We have lofty ideas that we do not put into practice. We also have many richexperiences that we do not analyze enough, that do not inspire us with ideas,whose lessons we ignore. Strategy requires a