not boxing. He was too small to be a heavyweight, lacked the requisite killer instinct--the press critique ran on. At the weigh-in on the morning of the bout, everyone was waiting for Clay's usual prefight antics. He exceeded their expectations. When Liston got off the scales, Clay began to shout at him: "Hey, sucker, you're a chump. You've been tricked, chump.... You are too ugly.... I'm going to whup you so bad." Clay jumped and screamed, his whole body shaking, his eyes popping, his voice quivering. He seemed possessed. Was he afraid or downright crazy? For Liston this was quite simply the last straw. He wanted to kill Clay and shut the challenger up for good. As they stood in the ring before the opening bell, Liston tried to stare down Clay as he had stared down others, giving him the evil eye. But unlike other boxers Clay stared back. Bobbing up and down in place, he repeated, "Now I've got you, chump." The fight began, and Liston charged forward at his prey, throwing a long left jab that missed by a mile. He kept coming, a look of intense anger on his face--but Clay shuffled back from each punch, even taunting Liston at one point by lowering his hands. He seemed able to anticipate Liston's every move. And he returned Liston's stare: even after the round ended and both men were in their corners, his eyes never left his opponent's. The second round was more of the same, except that Liston, instead of looking murderous, began to look frustrated. The pace was far faster than in any of his earlier fights, and Clay's head kept bobbing and orbiting in disturbing patterns. Liston would move in to strike his chin, only to miss or find Clay hitting Liston's chin instead, with a lightning-quick jab that made him wobble on his feet. At the end of the third round, a flurry of punches came out of nowhere and opened a deep gash under Liston's left eye. Now Clay was the aggressor and Liston was fighting to survive. In the sixth round, he began taking punches from all angles, opening more wounds and making Liston look weak and sad. When the bell for the seventh round rang, the mighty Liston just sat on his stool and stared--he refused to get up. The fight was over. The boxing world was stunned: Was it a fluke? Or--since Liston had seemed to fight as if under some spell, his punches missing, his movements tired and listless--had he just had an off night? The world would have to wait some fifteen months to find out, until the two boxers' rematch in Lewiston, Maine, in May 1965. Consumed with a hunger for revenge, Liston trained like a demon for this second fight. In the opening round, he went on the attack, but he seemed wary. He followed Clay--or rather Muhammad Ali, as he was now known--around the ring, trying to reach him with jabs. One of these