defeat is inevitable in life, you must master the art of losingwell and strategically. First, think of your own mental outlook, how you absorbdefeat psychologically. See it as a temporary setback, something to wake you upand teach you a lesson, and even as you lose, you end on a high note and with anedge: you are mentally prepared to go on the offensive in the next round. Sooften, those who have success become soft and imprudent; you must welcomedefeat as a way to make yourself stronger.Second, you must see any defeat as a way to demonstrate something positiveabout yourself and your character to other people. This means standing tall, notshowing signs of bitterness or becoming defensive. Early in his term aspresident, John F. Kennedy embroiled the country in the Bay of Pigs fiasco, afailed invasion of Cuba. While he accepted full responsibility for the debacle, hedid not overdo his apologies; instead he went to work on correcting the mistake,making sure it would not happen again. He kept his composure, showingremorse but also strength. In doing so he won public and political support thathelped him immensely in his future fights.Third, if you see that defeat is inevitable, it is often best to go downswinging. That way you end on a high note even as you lose. This helps to rallythe troops, giving them hope for the future. At the Battle of the Alamo in 1836,every last American fighting the Mexican army died--but they died heroically,refusing to surrender. The battle became a rallying cry--"Remember theAlamo!"--and an inspired American force under Sam Houston finally defeated the Mexicans for good. You do not have to experience physical martyrdom, but adisplay of heroism and energy makes defeat into a moral victory that will soonenough translate into a concrete one. Planting the seeds of future victory inpresent defeat is strategic brilliance of the highest order.Knowing how to end. Masters of the first rank are recognized by the fact thatin matters great and small they know how to find an end perfectly, be it at theend of a melody or a thought; of a tragedy's fifth act or an act of state. Thebest of the second rank always get restless toward the end, and do not fallinto the sea with such proud and calm balance as do, for example, themountains at Portofino--where the bay of Genoa finishes its melody.THE GAY SCIENCE, FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1882Finally, since any ending is a kind of beginning of the next phase, it is oftenwise strategy to end on an ambivalent note. If you are reconciling with an enemyafter a fight, subtly hint that you still have a residue of doubt--that the other sidemust still prove itself to you. When a campaign or project comes to an end, leavepeople feeling that they cannot foresee what you will do next--keep them insuspense, toying with their attention. By ending on a note of mystery andambiguity--a mixed signal, an insinuating comment, a touch of doubt--you gainthe upper hand for the next round in a most subtle