political intrigue for their own sake. When theycriticize, they always emphasize matters that are irrelevant to the overall pictureor argument. They are more interested in their career and position than in thetruth. You can distinguish them by how little they get done, or by how hard theymake it for others to get results. They lack a certain common sense, gettingworked up about things that are not really important while ignoring problemsthat will spell doom in the long term.The natural tendency with fools is to lower yourself to their level. Theyannoy you, get under your skin, and draw you into a battle. In the process, youfeel petty and confused. You lose a sense of what is really important. You can’twin an argument or get them to see your side or change their behavior, becauserationality and results don’t matter to them. You simply waste valuable time andemotional energy. In dealing with fools you must adopt the following philosophy: they aresimply a part of life, like rocks or furniture. All of us have foolish sides,moments in which we lose our heads and think more of our ego or short-termgoals. It is human nature. Seeing this foolishness within you, you can then acceptit in others. This will allow you to smile at their antics, to tolerate their presenceas you would a silly child, and to avoid the madness of trying to change them. Itis all part of the human comedy, and it is nothing to get upset about or lose sleepover. This attitude—“Suffer Fools Gladly”—should be forged in yourApprenticeship Phase, during which you are almost certainly going to encounterthis type. If they are causing you trouble, you must neutralize the harm they doby keeping a steady eye on your goals and what is important, and ignoring themif you can. The height of wisdom, however, is to take this even further and toactually exploit their foolishness—using them for material for your work, asexamples of things to avoid, or by looking for ways to turn their actions to youradvantage. In this way, their foolishness plays into your hands, helping youachieve the kind of practical results they seem to disdain.REVERSALWhile studying for his PhD at Harvard University in Computer Science, PaulGraham (b. 1964) discovered something about himself: he had a profounddistaste for any kind of politicking or social maneuvering. (For more on Graham,see pages 87–89.) He was not good at it, and it irritated him to no end to bedragged into situations in which others behaved manipulatively. His briefencounter with politics within the department convinced him he was not cut outfor a life in academia. This lesson became strengthened a few years later whenhe went to work for a software company. Almost everything they did wasirrational—firing the original tech people, making a salesperson the head of thecompany, creating too long a time between releases of new products. All ofthese bad choices came about because in a group, politics and ego often trumpsound decision making.Unable to tolerate this, he came up with his own solution: as much aspossible,