the race tightened up. The weekend before the vote, the Bush people ran anad portraying Dole as a "straddler," a man with two faces whose senate votesdepended on expediency, not sincere belief. Humorous, deceptive, bitinglynegative, the ad had Atwater's fingerprints all over it. And the timing wasperfect--too late for Dole to respond with an ad of his own. The ad helped propelBush into the lead and, a few days later, to victory.Shortly after the results of the New Hampshire primary were in, NBCnewsman Tom Brokaw caught up with Bush and asked if he had any message forhis rival. "Naw," he replied with a smile, "just wish him well." Then Brokawfound Dole and asked the same question. "Yeah," said Dole with a bitter scowl."Stop lying about my record."In the days to come, Dole's answer was rerun again and again on televisionand discussed in the papers. It made him look like a sore loser. The press began to pile on, and Dole was ungracious--he seemed whiny. A few weeks later, hewent down to a crushing defeat in South Carolina and shortly thereafter an evenworse string of losses in the Super Tuesday primaries throughout the South.Somewhere along the line, Dole's campaign had crashed and burned. Little didhe suspect that it had all begun in Iowa.InterpretationLee Atwater believed that adults could be divided into two groups: the overlymature and the childlike. The overly mature are inflexible and overserious,making them highly vulnerable in politics, particularly in the age of television.Dole was clearly the mature type, Atwater the child.It didn't take Atwater much research to see that Dole was hypersensitiveabout attacks on his wife. Replaying old charges against her in Iowa, Atwaterwas able to get under the senator's skin. He kept Dole's blood boiling with theletter that accused him of starting the dirty campaigning, and he upped thepressure with the perfectly timed ad that mocked Dole's record for NewHampshire voters. Although Atwater was the one pushing buttons, Dole'soutburst to Brokaw focused all attention on him and his unsportsmanlikebehavior. Atwater, a genius at one-upmanship, now stood back. Dole could onlyrespond with more sourness, compounding the problem and leading to electoralsuicide.Glaciation ...is the name for the set of gambits which are designed to inducean awkward silence, or at any rate a disinclination to talk, on the part ofpossible opponents. The "freezing" effects of these gambits is sometimes ofimmense power:...If someone else tells a funny story, do not, whateverhappens, tell your own funny story in reply, but listen intently and not onlyrefrain from laughing or smiling, but make no response, change of expressionor movement whatever. The teller of the funny story, whatever the nature ofhis joke, will then suddenly feel that what he has said is in bad taste. Presshome your advantage. If he is a stranger, and has told a story about a manwith one leg, it is no bad thing to pretend that one of your own legs is false,or at any rate that you have a severe limp. This will certainly silenceOpponent for the rest of