intolerable when an oﬃce engrosses a man with ﬁxed hours and a settled routine. Those are better that leave a man free to follow his own devices, combining variety with importance, for the change refreshes the mind. The most in repute are those that have least or most distant dependence on others; the worst is that which worries us both here and hereafter. cv Don't be a Bore. The man of one business or of one topic is apt to be heavy . Brevity ﬂatters and does better business; it gains by courtesy what it loses by curtness. Good things, when short, are twice as good. The quintessence of the matter is more eﬀective than a whole farrago of details. It is a well-known truth that talkative folk rarely have much sense whether in dealing with the matter itself or its formal treatment. There are that serve more for stumbling-stones than centrepieces, useless lumber in every one's way . The wise avoid being bores, especially to the great, who are fully occupied: it is worse to disturb one of them than all the rest. W ell said is soon said. cvi Do not parade your Position. To outshine in dignity is more oﬀensive than in personal attractions. To pose as a personage is to be hated: envy is surely enough. The more you seek esteem the less you obtain it, for it depends on the opinion of others. Y ou cannot take it, but must earn and receive it from others. Great positions require an amount of authority suﬃcient to make them eﬃcient: without it they cannot be adequately ﬁlled. Preserve therefore enough dignity to carry on the duties of the oﬃce. Do not enforce respect, but try and create it. Those who insist on the dignity of their oﬃce, show they have not deserved it, and that it is too much for them. If you wish to be valued, be valued for your talents, not for anything adventitious. Even kings prefer to be honoured for their personal qualiﬁcations rather than for their station. cvii Show no Self-satisfaction. Y ou must neither be discontented with yourself--and that were poor-spirited--nor self-satisﬁed--and that is folly . Self-satisfaction arises mostly from ignorance: it would be a happy ignorance not without its advantages if it did not injure our credit. Because a man cannot achieve the superlative perfections of others, he contents himself with any mediocre talent of his own. Distrust is wise, and even useful, either to evade mishaps or to aﬀord consolation when they come, for a misfortune cannot surprise a man who has already feared it. Even Homer nods at times, and Alexander fell from his lofty state and out of his illusions. Things depend on many circumstances: what constitutes triumph in one set may cause a defeat in another. In the midst of all incorrigible folly remains the same with empty self-satisfaction, blossoming, ﬂowering, and running all to seed. cviii The Path to Greatness is along with Others. Intercourse works