possess, that seems mystical but that isaccessible to us all. Whatever field of activity we are involved in, there isgenerally an accepted path to the top. It is a path that others have followed, andbecause we are conformist creatures, most of us opt for this conventional route.But Masters have a strong inner guiding system and a high level of self-awareness. What has suited others in the past does not suit them, and they knowthat trying to fit into a conventional mold would only lead to a dampening ofspirit, the reality they seek eluding them.And so inevitably, these Masters, as they progress on their career paths,make a choice at a key moment in their lives: they decide to forge their ownroute, one that others will see as unconventional, but that suits their own spiritand rhythms and leads them closer to discovering the hidden truths of theirobjects of study. This key choice takes self-confidence and self-awareness—theX factor that is necessary for attaining mastery. The following are examples ofthis X factor in action and the strategic choices it leads to. The examples givenare meant to show the importance of this quality and how we might adapt it toour own circumstances.1. Connect to your environment—Primal PowersAmong the many feats of human navigation of the sea, perhaps none are moreremarkable and mysterious than the voyages of the indigenous peoples in thearea known as Oceania—comprising the islands of Micronesia, Melanesia, andPolynesia. In an area that is 99.8 percent water, the inhabitants of this regionwere able for many centuries to deftly navigate the vast spaces between theislands. Some 1,500 years ago they managed to travel the several thousand milesto Hawaii, and perhaps at one point even voyaged as far as parts of North andSouth America, all in canoes with the same design and technology as those ofthe Stone Age. During the nineteenth century, mostly because of Westerninterference and the introduction of charts and compasses, these ancientnavigating skills died out, and the source of their uncanny skill remained mostlya mystery. But in the area of Micronesia known as the Caroline Islands, certainislanders maintained the ancient traditions well into the twentieth century. And islanders maintained the ancient traditions well into the twentieth century. Andthe first Westerners who traveled with them were astonished at what theywitnessed.The Islanders would travel in outrigger canoes fitted with a sail with three orfour men aboard, one serving as the chief navigator. They had no charts orinstruments of any kind, and for the Westerners who accompanied them thiscould be a disconcerting experience. Taking off at night or day (it didn’t matterto them), there would be apparently nothing to guide them along the way. Theislands were so far apart that one could travel for days without spotting land. Togo off course only slightly (and storms or weather changes could certainly causethat) would mean never spotting their destination, and probably death—it wouldtake too long to find the next island in the chain, and supplies would run out.And yet they would embark on their sea voyages with a