with which things are done. Emphasize efficiency:anybody can be efficient (it isn't a question of talent), efficiency breeds success,and success raises morale. Once the spirit and personality of the group start toshift, everything else will fall into place. 5. In April 1796 the twenty-six-year-old Napoleon Bonaparte was namedcommander of the French forces fighting the Austrians in Italy. For manyofficers his appointment was something of a joke: they saw their new leader astoo short, too young, too inexperienced, and even too badly groomed to play thepart of "general." His soldiers, too, were underpaid, underfed, and increasinglydisillusioned with the cause they were fighting for, the French Revolution. In thefirst few weeks of the campaign, Napoleon did what he could to make them fightharder, but they were largely resistant to him.On May 10, Napoleon and his weary forces came to the Bridge of Lodi, overthe river Adda. Despite his uphill struggle with his troops, he had the Austriansin retreat, but the bridge was a natural place to take a stand, and they hadmanned it with soldiers on either side and with well-placed artillery. Taking thebridge would be costly--but suddenly the French soldiers saw Napoleon ridingup in front of them, in a position of extreme personal risk, directing the attack.He delivered a stirring speech, then launched his grenadiers at the Austrian linesto cries of "Vive la Republique!" Caught up in the spirit, his senior officers ledthe charge.The French took the bridge, and now, after this relatively minor operation,Napoleon's troops suddenly saw him as a different man. In fond recognition ofhis courage, they gave him a nickname: "Le Petit Caporal." The story ofNapoleon facing the enemy at the Bridge of Lodi passed through the ranks. Asthe campaign wore on, and Napoleon won victory after victory, a bonddeveloped between the soldiers and their general that went beyond mere affection.Between battles Napoleon would sometimes wander among the soldiers'campfires, mingling with them. He himself had risen through the ranks--he hadonce been an ordinary gunner--and he could talk to the men as no other generalcould. He knew their names, their histories, even in what battles they'd beenwounded. With some men he would pinch an earlobe between his finger andthumb and give it a friendly tweak.Mercenary and auxiliary arms are useless and dangerous; and if one keepshis state founded on mercenary arms, one will never be firm or secure; forthey are disunited, ambitious, without discipline, unfaithful; bold amongfriends, among enemies cowardly; no fear of God, no faith with men; ruin ispostponed only as long as attack is postponed; and in peace you aredespoiled by them, in war by the enemy. The cause of this is that they have nolove nor cause to keep them in the field other than a small stipend, which isnot sufficient to make them want to die for you.THE PRINCE, NICCOLO MACHIAVELLI, 1513Napoleon's soldiers did not see him often, but when they did, it was as if anelectrical charge passed through them. It was not just his personal presence; heknew exactly when to show up--before a