that can always happen in battle. But he ignored theone thing closest to him: the chain of command, and the circuit ofcommunications by which orders, information, and decisions would circulateback and forth. He was dependent on that circuit to give him control of thesituation and allow him to execute his strategy. The first links in the chain of command were Stopford and Hammersley.Both men were terrified of risk, and Hamilton failed to adapt himself to theirweakness: his order to reach Tekke Tepe was polite, civilized, and unforceful,and Stopford and Hammersley interpreted it according to their fears. They sawTekke Tepe as a possible goal to aim for once the beaches were secured.The next links in the chain were the colonels who were to lead the assault onTekke Tepe. They had no contact with Hamilton on his island or with Stopfordon his boat, and Hammersley was too overwhelmed to lead them. Theythemselves were terrified of acting on their own and maybe messing up a planthey had never understood; they hesitated at every step. Below the colonels wereofficers and soldiers who, without leadership, were left wandering on the beachlike lost ants. Vagueness at the top turned into confusion and lethargy at thebottom. Success depended on the speed with which information could pass inboth directions along the chain of command, so that Hamilton could understandwhat was happening and adapt faster than the enemy. The chain was broken, andGallipoli was lost.When a failure like this happens, when a golden opportunity slips throughyour fingers, you naturally look for a cause. Maybe you blame your incompetentofficers, your faulty technology, your flawed intelligence. But that is to look atthe world backward; it ensures more failure. The truth is that everything startsfrom the top. What determines your failure or success is your style of leadershipand the chain of command that you design. If your orders are vague andhalfhearted, by the time they reach the field they will be meaningless. Let peoplework unsupervised and they will revert to their natural selfishness: they will seein your orders what they want to see, and their behavior will promote their owninterests.Unless you adapt your leadership style to the weaknesses of the people inyour group, you will almost certainly end up with a break in the chain ofcommand. Information in the field will reach you too slowly. A proper chain ofcommand, and the control it brings you, is not an accident; it is your creation, awork of art that requires constant attention and care. Ignore it at your peril.For what the leaders are, that, as a rule, will the men below them be.--Xenophon (430?-355? B.C.)REMOTE CONTROLIn the late 1930s, U.S. Brigadier General George C. Marshall (1880-1958)preached the need for major military reform. The army had too few soldiers,they were badly trained, current doctrine was ill suited to modern technology-- the list of problems went on. In 1939, President Franklin D. Roosevelt had toselect his next army chief of staff. The appointment was critical: World War IIhad begun in Europe, and Roosevelt believed that the