the $100 million request, signed it,and returned it to Groves without a word. The general thanked him and wasturning to leave when Marshall finally spoke: "It may interest you to know whatI was doing: I was writing the check for $3.52 for grass seed for my lawn."The thousands who worked under Marshall, whether in the War Departmentor abroad in the field, did not have to see him personally to feel his presence.They felt it in the terse but insightful reports that reached them from hisdeputies, in the speed of the responses to their questions and requests, in thedepartment's efficiency and team spirit. They felt it in the leadership style of menlike Eisenhower, who had absorbed Marshall's diplomatic yet forceful way ofdoing things. In a few short years, Marshall transformed the War Departmentand the U.S. Army. Few really understood how he had done it.InterpretationWhen Marshall became chief of staff, he knew that he would have to holdhimself back. The temptation was to do combat with everyone in every problemarea: the recalcitrance of the generals, the political feuds, the layers of waste. ButMarshall was too smart to give in to that temptation. First, there were too manybattles to fight, and they would exhaust him. He'd get frustrated, lose time, andprobably give himself a heart attack. Second, by trying to micromanage thedepartment, he would become embroiled in petty entanglements and lose sight ofthe larger picture. And finally he would come across as a bully. The only way toslay this many-headed monster, Marshall knew, was to step back. He had to rule indirectly through others, controlling with such a light touch that no one wouldrealize how thoroughly he dominated.Reports gathered and presented by the General Staff, on the one hand, and bythe Statistical Bureau, on the other, thus constituted the most importantsources of information at Napoleon's disposal. Climbing through the chain ofcommand, however, such reports tend to become less and less specific; themore numerous the stages through which they pass and the more standardizedthe form in which they are presented, the greater the danger that they willbecome so heavily profiled (and possibly sugar-coated or merely distorted bythe many summaries) as to become almost meaningless. To guard against thisdanger and to keep subordinates on their toes, a commander needs to have inaddition a kind of directed telescope--the metaphor is an apt one--which hecan direct, at will, at any part of the enemy's forces, the terrain, or his ownarmy in order to bring in information that is not only less structured than thatpassed on by the normal channels but also tailored to meet his momentary(and specific) needs. Ideally, the regular reporting system should tell thecommander which questions to ask, and the directed telescope should enablehim to answer those questions. It was the two systems together, cutting acrosseach other and wielded by Napoleon's masterful hand, which made therevolution in command possible.COMMAND IN WAR, MARTIN VAN CREVELD, 1985The key to Marshall's strategy was his selection, grooming, and placement ofhis proteges. He metaphorically cloned himself in these men, who