perform a solo, he was quite awkward and halting. He hadan unusual sense of rhythm, a hopping and skipping style that was peculiar tohim and not quite right for the bands he was playing for. Feeling self-conscious,when it came time for a solo he would resort to imitating someone else’s way ofplaying. Every few months he would suddenly experiment with a new sound thathe had heard. To some, it seemed like young Coltrane had gotten lost in all of hisstudying and roaming about.In 1955 Miles Davis—leader of the most famous jazz quartet at the time—decided to take a chance and invite Coltrane into his group. Like everyone else,he knew that the young man was the most technically brilliant player around, theresult of so many hours of practice. But he also detected in his work somethingstrange, a new kind of voice straining to come out. He encouraged Coltrane to gohis own way and never look back. In the months to come, Davis would havemoments of regret—he had let loose something that was hard to integrate intohis group. Coltrane had a way of starting chords in the strangest places. Hewould alternate fast passages with long tones, giving the impression that severalvoices were coming through the saxophone at once. No one had ever heard sucha sound. His tone was equally peculiar; he had his own way of tightly clenchingthe mouthpiece, making it seem as if it were his own gravelly voice that wasemerging from the instrument. His playing had an undercurrent of anxiety andaggression, which gave his music a sense of urgency.Although many were put off by this strange new sound, some critics began torecognize something exciting in it. One writer described what came out ofColtrane’s saxophone as “sheets of sound,” as if he were playing groups of notesat once and sweeping the listener away with his music. Although he was nowgaining recognition and attention, Coltrane continued to feel restless anduncertain. Through all of his years of practicing and playing he had beensearching for something he could hardly put into words. He wanted topersonalize his sound to the extreme, to make it the perfect embodiment of howhe was feeling—often emotions of a spiritual and transcendental nature, and thushard to verbalize. At moments his playing would come alive, but at other timesthe sensation of his own voice would elude him. Perhaps all of his knowledgewas in fact cramping and inhibiting him. In 1959 he left Miles Davis to form hisown quartet. From now on, he would experiment and try almost anything untilhe found the sound that he had been looking for.His song “Giant Steps,” on his first major album of the same name, was anexercise in unconventional music. Using peculiar chord progressions that moved in thirds, with constant key and chord changes, the music was impelledfrantically forward. (Its third-related chord progressions became known asColtrane changes, and are still used by musicians as a template for jazzimprovisation.) The album was a huge success; several pieces from it went on tobecome jazz standards, but the experiment