acamera ready on set with no film in it. He could pretend to take the extra shotsthat the producer wanted, letting the producer feel powerful without risk to theend result. Hitchcock did the same with actors: instead of telling them directlywhat to do, he would infect them with the emotion he wanted--fear, anger,desire--by the way he treated them on set. Every step on the campaign trail fitperfectly into the next one.In working on the level not of the battle but of the campaign, your first stepis crucial. It should usually be deceptively soft and indirect, making it harder toread. The Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor during World War II was adevastating surprise, but as the first move of a campaign it was a disaster. TheJapanese showed their hand too quickly; rallying American public opinion to anintense level of anger, they ensured that the Americans would prosecute the warto the bitter end--and it was the Americans who had the greater militaryresources. Always pay attention to the first step of the campaign. It sets thetempo, determines the enemy's mind-set, and launches you in a direction that hadbetter be the right one. The Prussian military theoretician Carl von Clausewitz famously argued that waris the continuation of politics by other means. He meant that every nation hasgoals--security, well-being, prosperity--that it ordinarily pursues through politics,but when another nation or internal force thwarts their achievement throughpolitics, war is the natural result. War is never merely about victory on thebattlefield or the simple conquest of land; it is about the pursuit of a policy thatcannot be realized in any other way than through force.When a war is lost, however, all fingers usually point at the military. Wemay sometimes go over the generals' heads, to the politicians who declared warin the first place; during and after the Vietnam War, for example, some blamedthe loss on the government's failure to commit to the war with full effort. Moreoften, though, the postgame analysis is military--we pore over the war's battles,critiquing the officers' moves. And of course it is the military that has plannedand fought the war, but even so, the real problem is a problem of grand strategy.According to von Clausewitz, failure in war is a failure of policy. The goals ofthe war, and the policies that drove it, were unrealistic, inappropriate, blind to other factors.This idea is the philosophy of the grand strategist. Whenever anything goeswrong, it is human nature to blame this person or that. Let other people engagein such stupidity, led around by their noses, seeing only what is immediatelyvisible to the eye. You see things differently. When an action goes wrong--inbusiness, in politics, in life--trace it back to the policy that inspired it in the firstplace. The goal was misguided.This means that you yourself are largely the agent of anything bad thathappens to you. With more prudence, wiser policies, and greater vision, youcould have avoided the danger. So when something goes wrong, look deep intoyourself--not in an emotional way, to blame yourself or indulge your feelings