with wheat and rice. He knew it would be impossible toprovide fodder for the 150,000 horses of his army, and so, thinking ahead, hedecided they would have to wait until June for the invasion, when the grasses ofthe Russian plains would be rich and green. At the last minute, he learned Russiahad very few mills to grind grain into flour, so he added to his growing list theneed to bring materials to build mills along the way. With the logistical problemsaddressed and his usual well-devised strategy in hand, Napoleon told hisministers that he foresaw complete victory within three weeks. In the past, thesepredictions of Napoleon's had been uncannily accurate.In June 1812, Napoleon's vast armada of men and supplies crossed intoRussia. Napoleon always planned for the unexpected, but this timeunmanageable difficulties began to pile up almost immediately: rain, the badroads, the intense summer heat brought the army's movements to a crawl. Withindays more than 10,000 horses ate rank grass and died. Supplies were failing toreach the forward troops fast enough, and they had to resort to foraging, but theuncooperative Russian peasants along the march not only refused to sell theirfood at any price but burned their hay rather than let the French have it. MoreFrench horses died when they were forced to feed off the thatch in the roofs ofhouses, only to find the houses collapsing on them. The two Russian armies inLithuania retreated too fast to be caught, and as they went, they burned crops anddestroyed all storehouses of food. Dysentery quickly spread through the Frenchtroops; some nine hundred men died each day.In his effort to catch and destroy at least a part of his elusive enemy,Napoleon was compelled to march ever farther east. At points he cametantalizingly close to the more northern of the two Russian armies, but hisexhausted men and horses could not move fast enough to meet or encircle it, andit easily escaped his traps each time. June bled into July. Now it became clearthat the Russians would be able to join their two armies at Smolensk, over 200 miles east of where Napoleon had intended to fight them and a mere 280 milesfrom Moscow. Napoleon had to call a halt and rethink his plan.In addition to wasting an ever-increasing proportion of French manpower,the elusive Russian tactics also contributed to the mental as well as physicalexhaustion of Napolean's forces. Tip and run raids by small bands ofCossacks were continuous and exercised a baleful influence far in excess ofthe military danger they represented. The French army became increasinglysubject to fits of the jitters. Captain Roeder noted one typical example in hisdiary. The Hessian troops were mustering for parade before the Emperor'squarters at Vitebsk on August 17, when "everything was suddenly thrown intoridiculous uproar because a few Cossacks had been sighted, who were said tohave carried off a forager. The entire garrison sprang to arms, and when theyhad ridden out it was discovered that we were really surrounded by only afew dozen Cossacks who were dodging about hither and