the world,and what you will often end up expressing is an opinion rather than a truthfulobservation about reality. To Keats, William Shakespeare was the ideal becausehe did not judge his characters, but instead opened himself up to their worlds andexpressed the reality of even those who were considered evil. The need forcertainty is the greatest disease the mind faces.To put Negative Capability into practice, you must develop the habit ofsuspending the need to judge everything that crosses your path. You considerand even momentarily entertain viewpoints opposite to your own, seeing howthey feel. You observe a person or event for a length of time, deliberatelyholding yourself back from forming an opinion. You seek out what is unfamiliar—for instance, reading books from unfamiliar writers in unrelated fields or fromdifferent schools of thought. You do anything to break up your normal train ofthinking and your sense that you already know the truth.To negate the ego you must adopt a kind of humility toward knowledge. Thegreat scientist Michael Faraday expressed this attitude in the following way:Scientific knowledge is constantly progressing. The greatest theories of the timeare eventually disproven or altered at some future point. The human mind issimply too weak to have a clear and perfect vision of reality. The idea or theorythat you are currently formulating, that seems so fresh and alive and truthful,will almost certainly be shot down or ridiculed in a few decades or centuries. will almost certainly be shot down or ridiculed in a few decades or centuries.(We tend to laugh at people prior to the twentieth century who did not yetbelieve in evolution and who saw the world as only 6,000 years old, but imaginehow people will be laughing at us for the naïve beliefs we hold in the twenty-first century!) And so it is best to keep this in mind and not grow too fond ofyour ideas or too certain of their truth.Negative Capability should not be a permanent state of mind. In order toproduce work of any sort we must create limits on what we’ll consider; we mustorganize our thoughts into relatively cohesive patterns, and eventually, come upwith conclusions. In the end, we must make certain judgments. NegativeCapability is a tool we use in the process to open the mind up temporarily tomore possibilities. Once this way of thinking leads to a creative avenue ofthought, we can give our ideas a clearer shape and gently let it go, returning tothis attitude whenever we feel stale or blocked.B. ALLOW FOR SERENDIPITYThe brain is an instrument developed for making connections. It operates as adual processing system, in which every bit of information that comes in is at thesame time compared to other information. The brain is constantly searching forsimilarities, differences, and relationships between what it processes. Your taskis to feed this natural inclination, to create the optimal conditions for it to makenew and original associations between ideas and experiences. And one of thebest ways to accomplish this is by letting go of conscious control and allowingchance to enter into