sidepanels of the chute was designed to help relax them while they were injected.As far back as she could remember, she had always been trying to wrapherself in blankets or bury herself under cushions and pillows to somehow feelsqueezed. As with the cows, any sort of gradual compression would relax her.(As is common for autistic children, being hugged by humans wasoverstimulating for her and induced anxiety; she had no control over theexperience.) She had long dreamed about some kind of device that couldsqueeze her, and seeing the cattle in the chute she realized the answer. One dayshe begged her aunt to let her into the chute to be squeezed like a cow, and theaunt agreed. For thirty minutes she experienced what she had always wanted,and afterwards felt a complete calmness. It was at such a moment that sherealized that she had some kind of strange connection to cattle, that her destinywas somehow tied up with these animals.Curious about this connection, a few years later in high school she decided toresearch the subject of cattle. She also wanted to find out whether other autisticchildren and adults felt the same way. She could find very little information oncattle and their emotions or how they might experience the world; there wasmuch more on autism, and she devoured books on the subject. In this way, shediscovered an interest in the sciences; doing research allowed her to channel hernervous energy and learn about the world. She had tremendous powers to focuscompletely on one subject.Slowly, she transformed herself into a promising student, which allowed herto gain admittance into a liberal arts school in New Hampshire where shemajored in psychology. She had chosen the field because of her interest inautism—she had a personal, inside knowledge of the subject, and following thismajor would help her to understand more of the science behind the phenomenon.After graduating, she decided to pursue a PhD in psychology at Arizona StateUniversity, but when she went back to the Southwest and visited her aunt, she reconnected with her childhood fascination with cattle. Not really knowing whyor what it would lead to, she decided to switch her major to animal sciences. Forher thesis, she would focus largely on cattle.Grandin had always done much of her thinking in visual terms, often havingto translate words into images before she could understand them. Perhaps thiswas the result of the unique wiring of her brain. As part of the fieldwork for hermajor, she visited a couple of cattle feedlots in the state, and she was appalled bywhat she saw. It suddenly became clear to her that her propensity to think invisual terms was not shared by most others. How else to explain the highlyirrational design of many of these feedlots and the remarkable lack of attentionpaid to details that were so visible to her eyes?She would watch with dismay as the animals were herded through cattlechutes that were far too slippery. She would imagine what it must feel like to bea 1,200 pound animal suddenly sensing a loss of