an important part of your self-development, whether he is of the good or bad parent type.In Spanish they say al maestro cuchillada—to the Master goes the knife. It isa fencing expression, referring to the moment when the young and agile pupilbecomes skillful enough to cut his Master. But this also refers to the fate of mostmentors who inevitably experience the rebellion of their protégés, like the cutfrom a sword. In our culture, we tend to venerate those who seem rebellious or atleast strike the pose. But rebellion has no meaning or power if it occurs withoutsomething solid and real to rebel against. The mentor, or father figure, gives youjust such a standard from which you can deviate and establish your own identity.You internalize the important and relevant parts of their knowledge, and youapply the knife to what has no bearing on your life. It is the dynamic of changinggenerations, and sometimes the father figure has to be killed in order for the sonsand daughters to have space to discover themselves.In any event, you will probably have several mentors in your life, likestepping-stones along the way to mastery. At each phase of life you must findthe appropriate teachers, getting what you want out of them, moving on, andfeeling no shame for this. It is the path your own mentor probably took and it isthe way of the world.STRATEGIES FOR DEEPENING THE MENTOR DYNAMICOne repays a teacher badly if one remains only a pupil. —FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHEAlthough you must submit to the authority of mentors in order to learn from andabsorb their power to the highest degree, this does not mean you remain passivein the process. At certain critical points, you can set and determine the dynamic,personalize it to suit your purposes. The following four strategies are designed tohelp you exploit the relationship to the fullest and transform the knowledge yougain into creative energy.1. Choose the mentor according to your needs and inclinationsIn 1888 the twenty-year-old Frank Lloyd Wright was an apprentice draftsman atthe prestigious Chicago firm of Joseph Lyman Silsbee. He had been there a yearand was learning much about the business, but he was getting restless. In hismind he could already envision a totally new style of architecture that wouldrevolutionize the field, but he lacked the experience to set up his own practice.Silsbee was a shrewd businessman who saw that his fortune was tied to stayingtrue to the Victorian style of design that was popular with his clients. Wrightcringed at what he was being asked to draw; he was learning antiquated designprinciples that offended him.Then, out of the blue, he heard that the great Chicago architect LouisSullivan was looking for a draftsman to help finish the drawings for a particularbuilding. It would be dangerous to leave Silsbee after such a short time and burnhis bridge there, but working for Sullivan would be infinitely more stimulatingfor his personal development as an architect. Sullivan’s firm was at the forefrontof designing skyscrapers, utilizing the latest advances in materials andtechnology.Wright went on a charm offensive