when Marshal Pietro Badoglio, the former chief of theItalian General Staff, arrested Benito Mussolini, dictator of Italy and Hitler'sstaunchest ally. The Germans feared that Badoglio might secretly open talks withGeneral Dwight D. Eisenhower for Italy's surrender--a devastating blow to theAxis that Hitler could forestall, if necessary, by sending an army to Rome,arresting Badoglio, and occupying the capital. But was it necessary?Hitler's armies were needed elsewhere, so Canaris was dispatched to assessthe likelihood of Italy's surrender. He met with his counterpart in the Italiangovernment, General Cesare Ame, then arranged for a meeting between high-ranking members of both countries' intelligence services. At the meeting, Ameemphatically denied that Badoglio had any intention of betraying Germany; infact, the marshal was fiercely loyal to the cause. And Ame was very convincing.Hitler accordingly left Italy alone. A few weeks later, however, Badoglio indeed surrendered to Eisenhower, and the valuable Italian fleet moved into Alliedhands. Canaris had been fooled--or was it Canaris who had done the fooling?General Walter Schellenberg, chief of the foreign intelligence branch of theSS, began to investigate the Badoglio fiasco and found two men in Ame's servicewho had listened in on one of Canaris's talks with their boss. Canaris, theyreported, had known of Badoglio's intentions to surrender all along and hadcollaborated with Ame to deceive Hitler. Surely this time the Abwehr chief hadbeen caught in the act and would pay with his life. Schellenberg accumulated athick dossier of other actions that cast more doubts on Canaris. He presented it toHeinrich Himmler, head of the SS, who, however, told his subordinate to keepquiet--he would present the dossier to Hitler when the time was right. Yet, toSchellenberg's dismay, months went by and Himmler did nothing, excepteventually to retire Canaris with honors from the service.Shortly after Canaris's retirement, his diaries fell into the hands of the SS.They revealed that he had conspired against Hitler from the beginning of hisservice as Abwehr chief, even plotting to assassinate the Fuhrer in schemes thathad only barely misfired. Canaris was sent to a concentration camp, where, inApril 1945, he was tortured and killed.InterpretationWilhelm Canaris was a devoutly patriotic and conservative man. In the earliestdays of the Nazi Party's rise to power, he had come to believe that Hitler wouldlead his beloved Germany to destruction. But what could he do? He was just oneman, and to raise his voice against Hitler would get him no more than a littlepublicity and an early death. Canaris cared only about results. So he kept quiet,and, when offered the job of Abwehr chief, he seized his opportunity. At first hebided his time, gaining credibility by his work in the Abwehr and getting tounderstand the inner workings of the Nazi government. Meanwhile he secretlyorganized a group of like-minded conspirators, the Schwarze Kapelle (BlackOrchestra), who would hatch several plots to kill Hitler. From his position in theAbwehr, Canaris was to some extent able to protect the Schwarze Kapelle frominvestigation. He also quietly gathered intelligence on the dirtiest secrets of high-ranking Nazis like Himmler and let them know that