fields to study visual psychology at Trinity College at theUniversity of Cambridge in England, where he received his PhD. In 1983 he wasappointed assistant professor of psychology at the University of California atSan Diego (UCSD). He is currently a Distinguished Professor in the PsychologyDepartment and Neurosciences Program at UCSD, and also serves as thedirector of the university’s Center for Brain and Cognition. He is best known forhis work on bizarre neurological syndromes such as phantom limbs, variousbody-identity disorders, Capgras delusion (in which the sufferer believes thatfamily members have been replaced by impostors), and for his theories on mirrorneurons and synesthesia. Among his numerous awards, he has been elected to anhonorary life membership to the Royal Institution of Great Britain, fellowshipsfrom Oxford University and Stanford University, and the annual Ramon Y Cajalaward from the International Neuropsychiatry Society. In 2011 Time magazinelisted him as “one of the most influential people in the world.” He is the authorof the best-selling Phantoms in the Brain (1998), as well as A Brief Tour ofHuman Consciousness: From Impostor Poodles to Purple Numbers (2005), andThe Tell-Tale Brain: A Neuroscientist’s Quest for What Makes Us Human(2010).Freddie Roach was born in 1960, in Dedham, Massachusetts. He began trainingas a boxer at the age of six. By the time he turned professional in 1978, Roachhad fought 150 amateur bouts. Training under the legendary Eddie Futch, as aprofessional Roach compiled a record of 41 wins (17 by knockout) and 13losses. After retiring as a fighter in 1986, Roach apprenticed as a trainer underFutch, then started his own career several years later, opening in 1995 his WildCard Boxing Club in Hollywood, California, where he now trains his stable offighters. As a trainer Roach has worked with 28 world champion boxersincluding Manny Pacquiao, Mike Tyson, Oscar De La Hoya, Amir Khan, JulioCésar Chávez Jr., James Toney, and Virgil Hill. He is also the coach of UFCWelterweight Champion Georges St. Pierre, and one of the top female boxers in the world, Lucia Rijker. In 1990 Roach was diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease,but has been able to largely control the effects of it through medication and hisrigorous training regimen. Among his numerous awards, he has been namedTrainer of Year by the Boxing Writers Association of America an unprecedentedfive times, and was recently inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame.Roach is the focus of the current HBO series On Freddie Roach, directed byPeter Berg.Cesar Rodriguez Jr. was born in 1959, in El Paso, Texas. After graduatingfrom the Citadel, the Military College of South Carolina, with a degree inbusiness administration, Rodriguez entered the Air Force Undergraduate PilotTraining Program. Trained as a command fighter pilot on the F-15, among otherjets, he slowly rose through the ranks, becoming major in 1993, lieutenantcolonel in 1997, and full colonel in 2002. He compiled over 3,100 fighter flighthours, 350 of which were in combat operations. He distinguished himself inaerial combat, as he is credited with downing three enemy aircraft—two IraqiMiG fighters during Operation Desert Storm (1991) and a Yugoslavian AirForce MiG during