a difficultpsychic task for anyone. A family has a kind of group ego and an interlockingemotional network; it requires a great deal of effort and practice to establishautonomy outside this system. Yet doing so, Bowen believed, though crucial foreveryone, was also professionally necessary for family therapists, who could notproperly help others if they had been unable to differentiate themselves fromtheir own families. They would carry their personal problems into their practice.And indeed here was Professor Bowen, a man in his early fifties who hadworked for years on his relationship to his family but who found himself suckedinto the group dynamic, regressing emotionally, unable to think straight, everytime he went home to Tennessee. That made him feel profoundly frustrated anddepressed. The time had come, he decided, to attempt a radical personalexperiment on his next visit home. In late January 1967, June Bowen received a lengthy letter from his brotherMurray. The two men had not written to each other for some time; in fact, Juneresented his brother and had avoided personal encounters with him for severalyears, for he felt that their mother always took Murray's side, even though it wasJune who was running the business. In the letter Murray passed on many gossipystories about June that family members had told him over the years, alwayscareful to add that Murray had better not let his "sensitive" brother hear them.Murray said he was tired of these stories and of being told how to manage hisbrother. It would be better, he thought, to communicate with June directly. Heended the letter by saying it would be unnecessary for the two of them to seeeach other on his next visit home, since he had told him everything he wanted tosay. He signed the letter "Your Meddlesome Brother."The more June thought about this letter, the angrier it made him. Murray haddeliberately churned up division between June and his family. Then, a few dayslater, the two men's younger sister also received a letter from Murray, saying hehad heard about her emotional distress and had written asking June to take careof her until he got home. He signed the letter "Your Worried Brother." This letterwas as upsetting to the sister as June's letter had been to him: she was tired ofpeople treating her as if she were sick--that only made her more anxious than shealready was. After another short interval, Murray sent a third letter, this time tohis mother. He mentioned the letters he had written to the others. He was tryingto defuse the family crisis, he said, by attracting all attention to himself. Hewrote that he had wanted to get his brother all roiled up and that he had thematerial to push even more buttons if necessary; but, he warned, it is never wiseto share intelligence with "the enemy," so his mother should keep all this toherself. He signed the letter "Your Strategic Son." Thinking he had lost his mind,his mother burned the letter.News of these letters passed quickly through the family, stirring up a hornet'snest of accusations, concerns,