Senate and the peoplewas restored; but in fact, because his enlarged province comprised themajority of the legions, and Egypt, over which he ruled as king...the basis ofpolitical power passed into his hands. Three days later the Senate decreedthat the title "Augustus" (the Revered) should be conferred upon him.JULIUS CAESAR, J.F.C. FULLER, 1965KEYS TO WARFAREWe humans have a particular limitation to our reasoning powers that causes usendless problems: when we are thinking about someone or about something thathas happened to us, we generally opt for the simplest, most easily digestibleinterpretation. An acquaintance is good or bad, nice or mean, his or herintentions noble or nefarious; an event is positive or negative, beneficial orharmful; we are happy or sad. The truth is that nothing in life is ever so simple.People are invariably a mix of good and bad qualities, strengths and weaknesses.Their intentions in doing something can be helpful and harmful to us at the same time, a result of their ambivalent feelings toward us. Even the most positiveevent has a downside. And we often feel happy and sad at the same time.Reducing things to simpler terms makes them easier for us to handle, butbecause it is not related to reality, it also means we are constantlymisunderstanding and misreading. It would be of infinite benefit for us to allowmore nuances and ambiguity into our judgments of people and events.This tendency of ours to judge things in simple terms explains why passiveaggression is so devilishly effective as a strategy and why so many people use it--consciously and unconsciously. By definition, people who are acting passive-aggressively are being passive and aggressive simultaneously. They areoutwardly compliant, friendly, obedient, even loving. At the same time, theyinwardly plot and take hostile action. Their aggression is often quite subtle--littleacts of sabotage, remarks designed to get under your skin. It can also be blatantlyharmful.When we are the victims of this behavior, we find it hard to imagine thatboth things are happening at the same time. We can manage the idea thatsomeone can be nice one day and nasty the next; that is just called being moody.But to be nasty and nice simultaneously--that confuses us. We tend to take thesepeople's passive exterior for reality, becoming emotionally engaged with theirpleasant, nonthreatening appearance. If we notice that something is not quiteright, that while seeming friendly they might be doing something hostile, we aregenuinely bewildered. Our confusion gives the passive-aggressive warrior greatmanipulative power over us.There are two kinds of passive aggression. The first is conscious strategy aspracticed by Metternich. The second is a semiconscious or even unconsciousbehavior that people use all the time in the petty and not-so-petty matters ofdaily life. You may be tempted to forgive this second passive-aggressive type,who seems unaware of the effects of his or her actions or helpless to stop, butpeople often understand what they are doing far better than you imagine, andyou are more than likely being taken in by their friendly and helpless exterior.We are generally too lenient with this second variety.The key to using passive