to kill an emissaryof the lord," and had two of the emissary's attendants executed in his stead.This too was announced to the army. Rangju sent the emissary back to reportto the lord, and then he set out with the army. When the soldiers made camp,Rangju personally oversaw the digging of wells, construction of stoves,preparation of food and drink, and care of the sick. He shared all of thesupplies of the leadership with the soldiers, personally eating the samerations as they. He was especially kind to the weary and weakened. Afterthree days, Rangju called the troops to order. Even those who were ill wantedto go along, eager to go into battle for Rangju. When the armies of Jin and Yan heard about this, they withdrew from the state of Qi. Now Rangju led histroops to chase them down and strike them. Eventually he recovered lostterritory and returned with the army victorious.MASTERING THE ART OF WAR: ZHUGE LIANG'S AND LIU JI'SCOMMENTARIES ON THE CLASSIC BY SUN-TZU, TRANSLATED BYTHOMAS CLEARY, 1989Step 5: Play to their emotions. The best way to motivate people is not throughreason but through emotion. Humans, however, are naturally defensive, and ifyou begin with an appeal to their emotions--some histrionic harangue--they willsee you as manipulative and will recoil. An emotional appeal needs a setup:lower their defenses, and make them bond as a group, by putting on a show,entertaining them, telling a story. Now they have less control over their emotionsand you can approach them more directly, moving them easily from laughter toanger or hatred. Masters of man management have a sense of drama: they knowwhen and how to hit their soldiers in the gut. Step 6: Mix harshness and kindness. The key to man management is a balanceof punishment and reward. Too many rewards will spoil your soldiers and makethem take you for granted; too much punishment will destroy their morale. Youneed to hit the right balance. Make your kindness rare and even an occasionalwarm comment or generous act will be powerfully meaningful. Anger andpunishment should be equally rare; instead your harshness should take the formof setting very high standards that few can reach. Make your soldiers compete toplease you. Make them struggle to see less harshness and more kindness. Step 7: Build the group myth. The armies with the highest morale are armiesthat have been tested in battle. Soldiers who have fought alongside one anotherthrough many campaigns forge a kind of group myth based on their pastvictories. Living up to the tradition and reputation of the group becomes a matterof pride; anyone who lets it down feels ashamed. To generate this myth, youmust lead your troops into as many campaigns as you can. It is wise to start outwith easy battles that they can win, building up their confidence. Success alonewill help bring the group together. Create symbols and slogans that fit the myth.Your soldiers will want to belong. Step 8: Be ruthless with grumblers. Allow grumblers and the chronicallydisaffected any leeway at all and they will spread disquiet