this kind of panic cannotfind its balance and can fall with the slightest push. Even the strongest and mostdetermined will be infected in the end, as Sultan Sanjar was: his attempts atsecurity, and the harsh life to which he subjected himself as protection, revealedthat he was under the influence of this panic. One simple dagger in the groundwas enough to push him over the edge.Understand: we are all are extremely susceptible to the emotions of thosearound us. It is often hard for us to perceive how deeply we are affected by themoods that can pass through a group. This is what makes the use of terror soeffective and so dangerous: with a few well-timed acts of violence, a handful ofassassins can spark all kinds of corrosive thoughts and uncertainties. Theweakest members of the target group will succumb to the greatest fear, spreading rumors and anxieties that slowly overcome the rest. The strong may respondangrily and violently to the terror campaign, but that only shows how influencedthey are by the panic; they are reacting rather than strategizing--a sign ofweakness, not strength. In normal circumstances individuals who becomefrightened in some way can often regain their mental balance over time,especially when they are around others who are calm. But this is almostimpossible within a panicked group.As the public's imagination runs wild, the assassins become something muchlarger, seeming omnipotent and omnipresent. As Hasan proved, a handful ofterrorists can hold an entire empire hostage with a few well-calibrated blowsagainst the group psyche. And once the group's leaders succumb to theemotional pull--whether by surrendering or launching an unstrategiccounterattack--the success of the terror campaign is complete.Victory is gained not by the number killed but by the number frightened.--Arab proverbKEYS TO WARFAREIn the course of our daily lives, we are subject to fears of many kinds. Thesefears are generally related to something specific: someone might harm us, aparticular problem is brewing, we are threatened by disease or even death itself.In the throes of any deep fear, our willpower is momentarily paralyzed as wecontemplate the bad that could happen to us. If this condition lasted too long orwere too intense, it would make life unbearable, so we find ways to avoid thesethoughts and ease our fears. Maybe we turn to the distractions of daily life:work, social routines, activities with friends. Religion or some other beliefsystem, such as faith in technology or science, might also offer hope. Thesedistractions and beliefs become the ground beneath us, keeping us upright andable to walk on without the paralysis that fear can bring.Under certain circumstances, however, this ground can fall away from underus, and then there is nothing we can do to steady ourselves. In the course ofhistory, we can track a kind of madness that overcomes humans during certaindisasters--a great earthquake, a ferocious plague, a violent civil war. Whattroubles us most in these situations is not any specific dreadful event thathappened in the recent past; we have a tremendous capacity to overcome andadapt to anything horrible. It is the uncertain future, the fear