they have loyalty to the state? Ifyou, Sir, wish to practise Zen, first of all practise loyalty and do not slip intowrong desires." The warrior said, "Our loyalty is direct Great Action on thebattlefield. What need have we for sermons from a priest?" The teacherreplied, "You, Sir, are a hero in strife, I am a gentleman of peace--we canhave nothing to say to each other." The warrior then drew his sword and said,"Loyalty is in the hero's sword, and if you do not know this, you should nottalk of loyalty." The teacher replied, "This old priest has the treasure sword ofthe Diamond King, and if you do not know it, you should not talk of thesource of loyalty." The samurai said, "Loyalty of your Diamond Sword--whatis the use of that sort of thing in actual fighting?" The teacher jumpedforward and gave one Katzu! shout, giving the samurai such a shock that helost consciousness. After some time the teacher shouted again and thesamurai at once recovered. The teacher said, "The loyalty in the hero's sword,where is it? Speak!" The samurai was over-awed; he apologized and took hisdeparture.SAMURAI ZEN: THE WARRIOR KOANS, TREVOR LEGGETT, 1985Interpretation Once retired to his farm, Machiavelli had the requisite time anddistance to think deeply about those matters that concerned him most. First, heslowly formulated the political philosophy that had long been brewing in hismind. To Machiavelli the ultimate good was a world of dynamic change inwhich cities or republics were reordering and revitalizing themselves inperpetual motion. The greatest evil was stagnation and complacency. The agentsof healthy change were what he called "new princes"--young, ambitious people,part lion, part fox, conscious or unconscious enemies of the established order.Second, Machiavelli analyzed the process by which new princes rose to theheights of power and, often, fell from it. Certain patterns were clear: the need tomanage appearances, to play upon people's belief systems, and sometimes totake decidedly amoral action.Machiavelli craved the power to spread his ideas and advice. Denied thispower through politics, he set out to win it through books: he would convertreaders to his cause, and they would spread his ideas, witting or unwittingcarriers. Machiavelli knew that the powerful are often reluctant to take advice,particularly from someone apparently beneath them. He also knew that many ofthose not in power might be frightened by the dangerous aspects of hisphilosophy--that many readers would be attracted and repelled at the same time.(The powerless want power but are afraid of what they might have to do to getit.) To win over the resistant and ambivalent, Machiavelli's books would have to be strategic, indirect and crafty. So he devised unconventional rhetorical tacticsto penetrate deep behind his readers' defenses.First, he filled his books with indispensable advice--practical ideas on howto get power, stay in power, protect one's power. That draws in readers of allkinds, for all of us think first of our own self-interest. Also, no matter how mucha reader resists, he or she realizes that ignoring this book and its ideas might bedangerous.Next, Machiavelli stitched historical anecdotes