will not magically take off after a fewcreative bursts of inspiration, but must be slowly evolved through a step-by-stepprocess as you correct the flaws. In the end, you win through superiorcraftsmanship, not marketing. This craftsmanship involves creating somethingwith an elegant, simple structure, getting the most out of your materials—a highform of creativity. These principles work with the natural bent of your brain, andare to be violated at your own peril.4. Natural PowersAfter graduating from architecture school in Spain in 1973, Santiago Calatravaexperienced some anxiety at the thought of rushing into an architecture practice.(For more on Calatrava, see pages 84–86.) He had ambitions early in life ofbecoming an artist, but gravitated toward architecture as a more expansive formof expression—something functional yet sculptural, something that could berealized on a large public scale. Architecture is a strange profession. It involvesso many constraints when it comes to actually realizing a structure—the desiresof the client, the budget, the materials available, the landscape, and even politicalissues. In the works of great architects in history, such as Le Corbusier, we cansee a lot of their personal style in the finished product, but with many otherstheir work becomes overwhelmed by the various constraints and interferences.Calatrava felt that he had not developed a sufficiently large vocabulary ormastered enough elements to be able to assert himself. If he went to work at afirm, his creative energies would be buried beneath all of the commercialpressures, and he would never recover.And so he made an unusual decision: he would attend the Federal Institute ofTechnology in Zurich to gain a degree in civil engineering. He wanted tobecome an engineer so that he could understand the limits of what was possiblein designing buildings and structures. He had the idea of someday attempting theconstruction of buildings that could move, transgressing some of the mostfundamental principles of architecture. For such a purpose, he studied designs by fundamental principles of architecture. For such a purpose, he studied designs byNASA in which various devices had been made that could fold up and expand,making them practical for space missions. Such designs required mastering newengineering principles that Calatrava immersed himself in at the Institute.After graduating in 1981 with an engineering degree, he finally began hispractice as an architect and engineer. He was now well versed in the technicalaspects of his job and in the basic requirements for completing a work, but noone had instructed him in the creative process itself. He would have to learn andinvent such a process for himself.His first big project came in 1983, when he was asked to design the façade ofan already existing structure—an enormous warehouse for Ernsting, a well-known clothing manufacturer in Germany. He decided to cover the structurewith untreated aluminum. This would tie the entire building together, but oneach side the sunlight would create different, sometimes dazzling effects. ToCalatrava the key part of the design was that of the three loading bay doors, eachon different sides of the warehouse. Here he could experiment with his ideas ofmovement and foldability. And so, not certain