approach. Whatmakes us go astray in the first place is that we are unattuned to the presentmoment, insensitive to the circumstances. We are listening to our own thoughts,reacting to things that happened in the past, applying theories and ideas that wedigested long ago but that have nothing to do with our predicament in thepresent. More books, theories, and thinking only make the problem worse.My policy is to have no policy.ABRAHAM LINCOLN, 1809-1865Understand: the greatest generals, the most creative strategists, stand out notbecause they have more knowledge but because they are able, when necessary,to drop their preconceived notions and focus intensely on the present moment.That is how creativity is sparked and opportunities are seized. Knowledge,experience, and theory have limitations: no amount of thinking in advance canprepare you for the chaos of life, for the infinite possibilities of the moment. Thegreat philosopher of war Carl von Clausewitz called this "friction": thedifference between our plans and what actually happens. Since friction isinevitable, our minds have to be capable of keeping up with change and adaptingto the unexpected. The better we can adapt our thoughts to changingcircumstances, the more realistic our responses to them will be. The more we lose ourselves in predigested theories and past experiences, the moreinappropriate and delusional our response.It can be valuable to analyze what went wrong in the past, but it is far moreimportant to develop the capacity to think in the moment. In that way you willmake far fewer mistakes to analyze.If you put an empty gourd on the water and touch it, it will slip to one side.No matter how you try, it won't stay in one spot. The mind of someone whohas reached the ultimate state does not stay with anything, even for a second.It is like an empty gourd on the water that is pushed around.TAKUAN, JAPAN, 1573-1645Think of the mind as a river: the faster it flows, the better it keeps up withthe present and responds to change. The faster it flows, also the more it refreshesitself and the greater its energy. Obsessional thoughts, past experiences (whethertraumas or successes), and preconceived notions are like boulders or mud in thisriver, settling and hardening there and damming it up. The river stops moving;stagnation sets in. You must wage constant war on this tendency in the mind.The first step is simply to be aware of the process and of the need to fight it.The second is to adopt a few tactics that might help you to restore the mind'snatural flow. Reexamine all your cherished beliefs and principles. When Napoleon wasasked what principles of war he followed, he replied that he followed none. Hisgenius was his ability to respond to circumstances, to make the most of what hewas given--he was the supreme opportunist. Your only principle, similarly,should be to have no principles. To believe that strategy has inexorable laws ortimeless rules is to take up a rigid, static position that will be your undoing. Ofcourse the study of history and theory can broaden your vision of the world,