to conclusions and formedjudgments early on.To accomplish this, he wrote, we must be capable of negating our ego. Weare by nature fearful and insecure creatures. We do not like what is unfamiliar orunknown. To compensate for this, we assert ourselves with opinions and ideasthat make us seem strong and certain. Many of these opinions do not come fromour own deep reflection, but are instead based on what other people think.Furthermore, once we hold these ideas, to admit they are wrong is to wound ourego and vanity. Truly creative people in all fields can temporarily suspend theirego and simply experience what they are seeing, without the need to assert ajudgment, for as long as possible. They are more than ready to find their mostcherished opinions contradicted by reality. This ability to endure and evenembrace mysteries and uncertainties is what Keats called negative capability.All Masters possess this Negative Capability, and it is the source of theircreative power. This quality allows them to entertain a broader range of ideasand experiment with them, which in turn makes their work richer and moreinventive. Throughout his career, Mozart never asserted any particular opinionsabout music. Instead, he absorbed the styles he heard around himself andincorporated them into his own voice. Late in his career, he encountered for thefirst time the music of Johann Sebastian Bach—a kind of music very differentfrom his own, and in some ways more complex. Most artists would growdefensive and dismissive of something that challenged their own principles.Instead, Mozart opened his mind up to new possibilities, studying Bach’s use ofcounterpoint for nearly a year and absorbing it into his own vocabulary. This counterpoint for nearly a year and absorbing it into his own vocabulary. Thisgave his music a new and surprising quality.At a young age, Albert Einstein found himself fascinated by the apparentparadox of two people observing the same beam of light—one pursuing it at thespeed of light, the other at rest, on Earth—and how it would appear the same toboth of them. Instead of using available theories to gloss this over or explain itaway, for ten long years he contemplated this paradox, in a state of NegativeCapability. Operating in this way, he was able to consider almost every possiblesolution, until finally he hit upon the one that led to his theory of relativity. (Formore on this, see chapter 6, page 278.)This might seem like some kind of poetic conceit, but in fact cultivatingNegative Capability will be the single most important factor in your success as acreative thinker. In the sciences, you will tend to entertain ideas that fit your ownpreconceptions and that you want to believe in. This unconsciously colors yourchoices of how to verify these ideas, and is known as confirmation bias. Withthis type of bias, you will find the experiments and data that confirm what youhave already come to believe in. The uncertainty of not knowing the answersbeforehand is too much for most scientists. In the arts and letters, your thoughtswill congeal around political dogma or predigested ways of looking at