it has been givento know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not beengiven. For to him who has will more be given, and he will have abundance;but from him who has not, even what he has will be taken away. This is why Ispeak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing theydo not hear, nor do they understand. With them indeed is fulfilled theprophecy of Isaiah which says: 'You shall indeed hear but never understand,and you shall indeed see but never perceive.'"MATTHEW 13:1-15The historical figure who most deeply pondered the nature ofcommunication was surely Socrates, the great philosopher of classical Athens.Socrates' goal was simple: he wanted to make people realize that theirknowledge of the world was superficial, if not downright false. Had he tried tosay this conventionally and directly, though, he would only have made hisaudience more resistant and would have strengthened their intellectualsmugness. And so, pondering this phenomenon, and through much trial anderror, Socrates came up with a method. First came the setup: he would make a show of his own ignorance, telling his audience of mostly young men that hehimself knew little--that any wisdom he was reputed to have was just talk.Meanwhile he would compliment his listeners, feeding their vanity by praisingtheir ideas in an offhand way. Then, in a series of questions constituting a dialogwith a member of his audience, he would slowly tear apart the very ideas he hadjust praised. He would never directly say anything negative, but through hisquestions he would make the other person see the incompleteness or falsity ofhis ideas. This was confusing; he had just professed his own ignorance, and hehad sincerely praised his interlocutors. Yet he had somehow raised a lot ofdoubts about what they had claimed to know.The dialog would lie in the minds of Socrates' targets for several days,leading them to question their ideas about the world on their own. In this frameof mind, they would now be more open to real knowledge, to something new.Socrates broke down people's preconceptions about the world by adopting whathe called a "midwife" role: he did not implant his ideas, he simply helped todeliver the doubts that are latent in everyone.The success of the Socratic method was staggering: a whole generation ofyoung Athenians fell under his spell and were permanently altered by histeachings. The most famous of these was Plato, who spread Socrates' ideas as ifthey were gospel. And Plato's influence over Western thought is perhaps greaterthan that of anyone else. Socrates' method was highly strategic. He began bytearing himself down and building others up, a way of defusing his listeners'natural defensiveness, imperceptibly lowering their walls. Then he would lurethem into a labyrinth of discussion from which they could find no exit and inwhich everything they believed was questioned. According to Alcibiades, one ofthe young men whom Socrates had bewitched, you never knew what he reallybelieved or what he really meant; everything he said was a rhetorical stance, wasironic. And since you