on the job, he became so good at thismental game that he could finish his work in two or three hours, leaving him therest of the day to engage in his own thought experiments. In 1905 he publishedhis first theory of relativity, much of the work having been done while he was athis desk in the Patent Office. his desk in the Patent Office.Martha Graham (see pages 30–31 for more on her early years) first trained as adancer at the Denishawn School in Los Angeles, but after several years shedetermined she had learned enough and needed to go elsewhere to sharpen herskills. She ended up in New York, and in 1924 was offered a two-year stint as adancer in a follies’ show; it was well paid, and so she accepted. Dancing isdancing, she thought, and she could always work on her own ideas in her freetime. But near the end of the term, she decided she would never again acceptcommercial work. It drained her of all of her creative energy and destroyed herdesire to work on her own time. It also made her feel dependent on a paycheck.What is important when you are young, she decided, is to train yourself toget by with little money and make the most of your youthful energy. For the nextfew years she would work as a dance teacher, keeping her hours to the minimumfor survival. The rest of the time she would train herself in the new style ofdancing she wanted to create. Knowing the alternative was slavery to somecommercial job, she made the most of every free minute, creating in these fewyears the groundwork for the most radical revolution in modern dance.As previously narrated in chapter 1 (see page 39), when Freddie Roach’s careeras a boxer came to an end in 1986, he took a job as a telemarketer in Las Vegas.One day, he entered the gym where he himself had trained under the legendarycoach Eddie Futch. He found many boxers there who were not receiving anypersonalized attention from Futch. Even though he was not asked, he began tohang around the gym every afternoon and help out. It turned into a job for whichhe was not paid, so he held on to his telemarketing position. Working the twojobs left just enough time to sleep. It was almost unbearable, but he couldwithstand it because he was learning the trade for which he knew was destined.Within a few years he had impressed enough young boxers with his knowledgeto set up his own business, and was soon to become the most successful boxingtrainer of his generation. It is a simple law of human psychology that your thoughts will tend to revolvearound what you value most. If it is money, you will choose a place for yourapprenticeship that offers the biggest paycheck. Inevitably, in such a place youwill feel greater pressures to prove yourself worthy of such pay, often before youare really ready. You will be focused on yourself, your insecurities, the need toplease and impress the