repression that could have been better applied to reforms that mighthave prolonged its stay in power. The repression also incubated a much morepotent revolutionary group, the burgeoning communist movement.In essence, terrorists kick a rock in order to start an avalanche. If nolandslide follows, little is lost, except perhaps their own lives, which they arewilling to sacrifice in their devotion to their cause. If mayhem and chaos ensue,though, they have great power to influence events. Terrorists are often reactingagainst an extremely static situation in which change by any route is blocked. In their desperation they can often break up the status quo.It is a mistake to judge war by the rubric of victory or defeat: both stateshave shades and gradations. Few victories in history are total or bring aboutlasting peace; few defeats lead to permanent destruction. The ability to effectsome kind of change, to attain a limited goal, is what makes terrorism soalluring, particularly to those who are otherwise powerless.For instance, terrorism can be used quite effectively for the limited goal ofgaining publicity for a cause. Once this is achieved, a public presence isestablished that can be translated into political power. When Palestinianterrorists hijacked an El Al plane in 1968, they captured the attention of the massmedia all over the world. In the years to come, they would stage-manage otherterrorist acts that played well on television, including the infamous attack on the1972 Munich Olympics. Although such acts made them hated by most in non-Arab countries, they were willing to live with that--the publicity for their cause,and the power that came from it, was all they were after. As the writer BrianJenkins notes, "Insurgents fought in Angola, Mozambique, and PortugueseGuinea for fourteen years using the standard tactics of rural guerrilla warfare.The world hardly noticed their struggle, while an approximately equal number ofPalestinian commandos employing terrorist tactics have in a few years become aprimary concern to the world."In a world dominated by appearances, in which value is determined bypublic presence, terrorism can offer a spectacular shortcut to publicity--andterrorists accordingly tailor their violence to the media, particularly television.They make it too gruesome, too compelling, to ignore. Reporters and pundits canprofess to be shocked and disgusted, but they are helpless: it is their job tospread the news, yet in essence they are spreading the virus that can only aid theterrorists by giving them such presence. The effect does not go unnoticed amongthe small and powerless, making the use of terrorism perversely appealing to anew generation.Yet for all its strengths, terrorism also has limitations that have proved thedeath of many a violent campaign, and those opposing it must know and exploitthis. The strategy's main weakness is the terrorists' lack of ties to the public or toa real political base. Often isolated, living in hiding, they are prone to losecontact with reality, overestimating their own power and overplaying their hand.Although their use of violence must be strategic to succeed, their alienation fromthe public makes it hard for them to maintain a sense of balance. The membersof Narodnaya