Mozart family had come now to depend on the money that the childrenhad generated through the tour, but as the years went by the invitations began todry up. The novelty had worn off, and the children no longer seemed so youngand precious. Desperate to generate money, Leopold came up with a differentscheme. His son was turning into a serious composer, with the ability tocompose in different genres. What was needed was to secure for him a stableposition as a court composer, and attract commissions for concertos andsymphonies. With this goal in mind, in 1770 father and son embarked on seriesof tours of Italy, then the center of all things musical in Europe.The trip went well. Wolfgang performed his magic on the piano before all ofthe major courts in Italy. He gained acclaim for his symphonies and concertpieces—they were quite impressive for a teenager. He mingled yet again withthe most celebrated composers of his time, intensifying the musical knowledgehe had gained on his previous tours. In addition, he rediscovered his greatestpassion in music—the opera. As a child he had always had the feeling that hewas destined to compose great operas. In Italy he saw the finest productions andrealized the source of his fascination—it was the drama translated into puremusic, the nearly limitless potential of the human voice to express the full rangeof emotion, and the overall spectacle. He had an almost primal attraction to anykind of theater. But despite all of the attention and inspiration he received, afternearly three years of visiting the various courts in Italy, he was not offered aposition or a commission that was worthy of his talents. And so, in 1773, fatherand son returned to Salzburg.After some delicate negotiation with the archbishop of Salzburg, Leopoldfinally managed to secure for his son a relatively lucrative position as courtmusician and composer. And by all appearances the arrangement was good: nothaving to worry about money, Wolfgang would have endless time to work on having to worry about money, Wolfgang would have endless time to work oncomposing. But almost from the beginning Wolfgang felt uncomfortable andrestless. He had spent almost half of his youth traveling throughout Europe,mingling with the leading minds in music, and listening to the most renownedorchestras, and now he was relegated to life in provincial Salzburg, isolated fromthe European centers of music, in a city that had no theater or opera tradition.More troubling, however, was the mounting frustration he felt as a composer.For as long as he could remember, his head was continuously filled with music,but it was always the music of other people. He knew that his own pieces weresimply clever imitations and adaptations of other composers. He had been like ayoung plant, passively absorbing nutrients from the environment in the form ofthe different styles he had learned and mastered. But he could feel stirring fromdeep within something more active, the desire to express his own music and tostop imitating. The soil was now rich enough. As an adolescent, he was assailedby all kinds of conflicting and