but in such a way that even when they all exist they are not in the fashion and are not imitated. What a misfortune for our age that it regards virtue as a stranger and vice as a matter of course! If you are wise, live as you can, if you cannot live as you would. Think more highly of what fate has given you than of what it has denied. cxxi Do not make a Business of what is no Business. As some make gossip out of everything, so others business. They always talk big, take everything in earnest, and turn it into a dispute or a secret. T roublesome things must not be taken too seriously if they can be avoided. It is preposterous to take to heart that which you should throw over your shoulders. Much that would be something has become nothing by being left alone, and what was nothing has become of consequence by being made much of. At the outset things can be easily settled, but not afterwards. Often the remedy causes the disease. 'Tis by no means the least of life's rules: to let things alone. cxxii Distinction in Speech and Action. By this you gain a position in many places and carry esteem beforehand. It shows itself in everything, in talk, in look, even in gait. It is a great victory to conquer men's hearts: it does not arise from any foolish presumption or pompous talk, but in a becoming tone of authority born of superior talent combined with true merit. cxxiii Avoid Affectation. The more merit, the less aﬀectation, which gives a vulgar ﬂavour to all. It is wearisome to others and troublesome to the one aﬀected, for he becomes a martyr to care and tortures himself with attention. The most eminent merits lose most by it, for they appear proud and artiﬁcial instead of being the product of nature, and the natural is always more pleasing than the artiﬁcial. One always feels sure that the man who aﬀects a virtue has it not. The more pains you take with a thing, the more should you conceal them, so that it may appear to arise spontaneously from your own natural character. Do not, however, in avoiding aﬀectation fall into it by aﬀecting to be unaﬀected. The sage never seems to know his own merits, for only by not noticing them can you call others' attention to them. He is twice great who has all the perfections in the opinion of all except of himself; he attains applause by two opposite paths. cxxiv Get Y ourself missed. Few reach such favour with the many; if with the wise 'tis the height of happiness. When one has ﬁnished one's work, coldness is the general rule. But there are ways of earning this reward of goodwill. The sure way is to excel in your oﬃce and talents: add to this agreeable manner and you reach the point where you become necessary to your oﬃce,