and counterstrategies develops over thecenturies, and since war is so dangerously chaotic, strategists come to rely onthese principles for lack of anything else. They filter what's happening nowthrough what happened in the past. The armies that have shaken the world,though, have always found a way to operate outside the canon, and thus outsidethe enemy's experience. This ability imposes chaos and disorder on the enemy,which cannot orient itself to novelty and collapses in the process.Your task as a strategist is to know your enemies well, then use yourknowledge to contrive a strategy that goes outside their experience. What theymight have read or heard about matters less than their personal experience,which dominates their emotional lives and determines their responses. When theGermans invaded France in 1940, the French had secondhand knowledge of theirblitzkrieg style of warfare from their invasion of Poland the year before but hadnever experienced it personally and were overwhelmed. Once a strategy is usedand is no longer outside your enemy's experience, though, it will not have thesame effect if repeated. Unfold the extraordinary out of the ordinary. To Sun-tzu and the ancientChinese, doing something extraordinary had little effect without a setup of something ordinary. You had to mix the two--to fix your opponents' expectationswith some banal, ordinary maneuver, a comfortable pattern that they would thenexpect you to follow. With the enemy sufficiently mesmerized, you would thenhit it with the extraordinary, a show of stunning force from an entirely newangle. Framed by the predictable, the blow would have double the impact.Make a false move, not to pass it for a genuine one but to transform it into agenuine one after the enemy has been convinced of its falsity.THE WILES OF WAR: 36 MILITARY STRATEGIES FROM ANCIENTCHINA, TRANSLATED BY SUN HAICHEN, 1991The unconventional maneuver that confused enemies, though, would havebecome conventional the second or third time around. So the wily general mightthen go back to the ordinary strategy that he had used earlier to fix their attentionand use it for his main attack, for that would be the last thing the enemy wouldexpect. And so the ordinary and the extraordinary are effective only if they playoff each other in a constant spiraling manner. This applies to culture as much asto war: to gain attention with some cultural product, you have to createsomething new, but something with no reference to ordinary life is not in factunconventional, but merely strange. What is truly shocking and extraordinaryunfolds out of the ordinary. The intertwining of the ordinary and extraordinary isthe very definition of surrealism. Act crazy like a fox. Despite appearances, a lot of disorder and irrationalitylurks beneath the surface of society and individuals. That is why we sodesperately strain to maintain order and why people acting irrationally can beterrifying: they are demonstrating that they have lost the walls we build to keepout the irrational. We cannot predict what they will do next, and we tend to givethem a wide berth--it is not worth mixing it up with such sources of chaos. Onthe other hand, these