sign of progress—asignal that your mind is processing complexity and requires more practice. Theinsecurities will transform into their opposites when you gain mastery. Trustingthis will all happen, you will allow the natural learning process to move forward,and everything else will fall into place.5. Move toward resistance and pain A. Bill Bradley (b. 1943) fell in love with the sport of basketball somewherearound the age of ten. He had one advantage over his peers—he was tall for hisage. But beyond that, he had no real natural gift for the game. He was slow andgawky, and could not jump very high. None of the aspects of the game cameeasily to him. He would have to compensate for all of his inadequacies throughsheer practice. And so he proceeded to devise one of the most rigorous andefficient training routines in the history of sports.Managing to get his hands on the keys to the high school gym, he created forhimself a schedule—three and a half hours of practice after school and onSundays, eight hours every Saturday, and three hours a day during the summer.Over the years, he would keep rigidly to this schedule. In the gym, he would putten-pound weights in his shoes to strengthen his legs and give him more springto his jump. His greatest weaknesses, he decided, were his dribbling and hisoverall slowness. He would have to work on these and also transform himselfinto a superior passer to make up for his lack of speed.For this purpose, he devised various exercises. He wore eyeglass frames withpieces of cardboard taped to the bottom, so he could not see the basketball whilehe practiced dribbling. This would train him to always look around him ratherthan at the ball—a key skill in passing. He set up chairs on the court to act asopponents. He would dribble around them, back and forth, for hours, until hecould glide past them, quickly changing direction. He spent hours at both ofthese exercises, well past any feelings of boredom or pain.Walking down the main street of his hometown in Missouri, he would keephis eyes focused straight ahead and try to notice the goods in the store windows,on either side, without turning his head. He worked on this endlessly, developinghis peripheral vision so he could see more of the court. In his room at home, hepracticed pivot moves and fakes well into the night—such skills that would alsohelp him compensate for his lack of speed.Bradley put all of his creative energy into coming up with novel andeffective ways of practicing. One time his family traveled to Europe viatransatlantic ship. Finally, they thought, he would give his training regimen abreak—there was really no place to practice on board. But below deck andrunning the length of the ship were two corridors, 900 feet long and quite narrow—just enough room for two passengers. This was the perfect location to practicedribbling at top speed while maintaining perfect ball control. To make it evenharder, he decided to wear special eyeglasses that narrowed his vision. For hoursevery day he