our restraint forweakness and is now creating new troubles by making invidious chargesagainst us. Therefore my lord was compelled to order a punitive expeditionagainst Hu, and he dispatched me to ask your permission to let our troopspass through your land. This way, we can get around our border with Hu,where its defense is strong, and launch a surprise attack at its weak point.When we have defeated the men of Hu, we shall present you with splendidtrophies to testify to our mutual alliance and friendship."...That summer theJin troops attacked Hu by way of Yu. The Duke of Yu led a band of force inperson to join in the expedition. They defeated the Hu army and capturedXiayang, one of Hu's two major cities. The Duke of Yu received his share ofthe booty and believed he had nothing to regret for....... In autumn of thetwenty-second year under King Hui of Zhou (655 B.C.), the Duke of Jin againsent an envoy to borrow a path from Yu [to Hu], and again the Duke of Yugave his consent....... In the eighth month, the Duke of Jin led six hundred warchariots and proceeded by way of Yu to attack Hu. They laid siege toShangyang, the capital of Hu.... The city, after holding out for nearly fourmonths, finally yielded. The Duke of Hu fled...and Hu as a feudal state wasdestroyed. On their way back, the Jin troops halted at Yu. The Duke of Yucame to welcome them, receiving the Duke of Jin into the capital. The Jintroops seized the chance to storm into the city. Taken totally off guard, the Yuarmy submitted with little resistance, and the Duke of Yu was taken prisoner.Duke Xian of Jin was extremely pleased when Xun Xi returned to present himwith the horses and jade as well as the captured Duke of Yu.THE WILES OF WAR: 36 MILITARY STRATEGIES FROM ANCIENTCHINA, TRANSLATED BY SUN HAICHEN, 1991The first step is to understand that all of us constantly use other people to help and advance ourselves. (Bowen went so far as to use his own family in anexperiment to solve a professional dilemma.) There is no shame in this, no needto ever feel guilty. Nor should we take it personally when we realize thatsomeone else is using us; using people is a human and social necessity. Next,with this understanding in mind, you must learn to make these necessaryalliances strategic ones, aligning yourself with people who can give yousomething you cannot get on your own. This requires that you resist thetemptation to let your decisions about alliances be governed by your emotions;your emotional needs are what your personal life is for, and you must leave thembehind when you enter the arena of social battle. The alliances that will help youmost are those involving mutual self-interest. Alliances infected with emotions,or with ties of loyalty and friendship, are nothing but trouble. Being strategicwith your alliances will also keep you from the bad entanglements that are theundoing of so many.Think of your alliances as stepping-stones toward a goal.