at exit. Few in life are felt to deserve an encore. Fortune rarely accompanies any one to the door: warmly as she may welcome the coming, she speeds but coldly the parting guest. lx A Sound Judgment. Some are born wise, and with this natural advantage enter upon their studies, with a moiety already mastered. With age and experience their reason ripens, and thus they attain a sound judgment. They abhor everything whimsical as leading prudence astray , especially in matters of state, where certainty is so necessary , owing to the importance of the aﬀairs involved., Such men deserve to stand by the helm of state either as pilots or as men at the wheel. lxi T o Excel in what is Excellent. A great rarity among excellences. Y ou cannot have a great man without something pre-eminent. Mediocrities never win applause. Eminence in some distinguished post distinguishes one from the vulgar mob and ranks us with the elect. To be distinguished in a Small post is to be great in little: the more comfort, the less glory . The highest eminence in great aﬀairs has the royal characteristic of exciting admiration and winning goodwill. lxii Use good Instruments. Some would have the subtlety of their wits proven by the meanness of their instruments. 'Tis a dangerous satisfaction, and deserves a fatal punishment. The excellence of a minister never diminished the greatness of his lord. All the glory of exploits reverts to the principal actor; also all the blame. Fame only does business with principals. She does not say , "This had good, that had bad servants," but, "This was a good artist, that a bad one." Let your assistants be selected and tested therefore, for you have to trust to them for an immortality of fame. lxiii T o be the First of the Kind is an Excellence, and to be eminent in it as well, a double one. To have the ﬁrst move is a great ad-vantage when the players are equal. Many a man would have been a veritable Phoenix if he had been the ﬁrst of the sort. Those who come ﬁrst are the heirs of Fame; the others get only a younger brother's allowance: whatever they do, they cannot persuade the world they are anything more than parrots. The skill of prodigies may ﬁnd a new path to eminence, but prudence accompanies them all the way . By the novelty of their enterprises sages write their names in the golden book of heroes. Some prefer to be ﬁrst in things of minor import than second in greater exploits. lxiv Avoid W orry . Such prudence brings its own reward. It escapes much, and is thus the midwife of comfort and so of happiness. Neither give nor take bad news unless it can help. Some men's ears are stuﬀed with the sweets of ﬂattery; others with the bitters of scandal, while some cannot live without a daily annoyance no more than Mithridates could without poison.