the correctness of theirideas, they use argument and rhetoric, growing ever louder and more emotional.They push and pull with words, actions, and orders. Even those more passiveplayers who use the tools of manipulation and guilt are quite direct, not in theleast subtle, in the paths they choose; witness a few of their maneuvers and theyare rather easy to figure out.When, in the course of studying a long series of military campaigns, I firstcame to perceive the superiority of the indirect over the direct approach, Iwas looking merely for light upon strategy. With deepened reflection,however, I began to realize that the indirect approach had a much widerapplication--that it was a law of life in all spheres: a truth of philosophy. Itsfulfillment was seen to be the key to practical achievement in dealing withany problem where the human factor predominates, and a conflict of willstends to spring from an underlying concern for all interests. In all such cases,the direct assault of new ideas provokes a stubborn resistance, thusintensifying the difficulty of producing a change of outlook. Conversion isachieved more easily and rapidly by unsuspected infiltration of a differentidea or by an argument that turns the flank of instinctive opposition. Theindirect approach is as fundamental to the realm of politics as to the realm ofsex. In commerce, the suggestion that there is a bargain to be secured is far more important than any direct appeal to buy. And in any sphere, it isproverbial that the surest way of gaining a superior's acceptance of a newidea is to weaken resistance before attempting to overcome it; and the effectis best attained by drawing the other party out of his defences.STRATEGY, B. H. LIDDELL HART, 1954The result of all of this is twofold: we have all become more defensive,resistant to change. To maintain some peace and stability in our lives, we buildour castle walls ever higher and thicker. Even so, the increasingly direct brutalityof daily life is impossible to avoid. All those arrows hitting us infect us withtheir energy; we cannot help but try to give back what we get. Reacting to directmaneuvers, we find ourselves dragged into head-to-head arguments and battles.It takes effort to step away from this vicious arena and consider anotherapproach.You must ask yourself this question: what is the point of being direct andfrontal if it only increases people's resistance, and makes them more certain oftheir own ideas? Directness and honesty may give you a feeling of relief, butthey also stir up antagonism. As tactics they are ineffective. In war itself--bloodwar, not the interpersonal wars of everyday life--frontal battles have becomerare. Military officers have come to realize that direct attack increases resistance,while indirection lowers it.The people who win true power in the difficult modern world are those whohave learned indirection. They know the value of approaching at an angle,disguising their intentions, lowering the enemy's resistance, hitting the soft,exposed flank instead of butting horns. Rather than try to push or pull people,they coax them to turn in the direction they desire. This takes effort