butyou have to combat theory's tendency to harden into dogma. Be brutal with thepast, with tradition, with the old ways of doing things. Declare war on sacredcows and voices of convention in your own head.Our education is often a problem. During World War II, the British fightingthe Germans in the deserts of North Africa were well trained in tank warfare;you might say they were indoctrinated with theories about it. Later in thecampaign, they were joined by American troops who were much less educated inthese tactics. Soon, though, the Americans began to fight in a way that was equal if not superior to the British style; they adapted to the mobility of this new kindof desert combat. According to Field Marshal Erwin Rommel himself, the leaderof the German army in North Africa, "The Americans...profited far more thanthe British from their experience in Africa, thus confirming the axiom thateducation is easier than reeducation."What Rommel meant was that education tends to burn precepts into the mindthat are hard to shake. In the midst of combat, the trained mind may fall a stepbehind--focusing more on learned rules than on the changing circumstances ofbattle. When you are faced with a new situation, it is often best to imagine thatyou know nothing and that you need to start learning all over again. Clearingyour head of everything you thought you knew, even your most cherished ideas,will give you the mental space to be educated by your present experience--thebest school of all. You will develop your own strategic muscles instead ofdepending on other people's theories and books. Erase the memory of the last war. The last war you fought is a danger, even ifyou won it. It is fresh in your mind. If you were victorious, you will tend torepeat the strategies you just used, for success makes us lazy and complacent; ifyou lost, you may be skittish and indecisive. Do not think about the last war; youdo not have the distance or the detachment. Instead do whatever you can to blotit from your mind. During the Vietnam War, the great North Vietnamese generalVo Nguyen Giap had a simple rule of thumb: after a successful campaign, hewould convince himself that it had actually been a failure. As a result he nevergot drunk on his success, and he never repeated the same strategy in the nextbattle. Rather he had to think through each situation anew.Ted Williams, perhaps baseball's greatest pure hitter, made a point of alwaystrying to forget his last at-bat. Whether he'd gotten a home run or a strikeout, heput it behind him. No two at-bats are the same, even against the same pitcher,and Williams wanted an open mind. He would not wait for the next at-bat to startforgetting: the minute he got back to the dugout, he started focusing on what washappening in the game taking place. Attention to the details of the present is byfar the best way to crowd out the past and forget the last war. Keep the mind moving. When we were children,