sunlight above. As people ascend thestairs, they can see in the acrylic strips their own reflections, which are oddlydistorted, similar to the effect of seeing things through water. Viewing the stripsfrom up close, it is clear that it is all an illusion created by the most minimalamount of material, and yet the feel of water, the sense of being immersed,remains palpable and strange. The spectators thus become actual parts of theartwork itself, with their own reflections helping to create the illusion. Theexperience of moving through this dreamlike space makes us conscious oncemore of the tensions between art and nature, illusion and reality, coldness andwarmth, wet and dry, and provokes a powerful intellectual and emotionalresponse. Our culture depends in many ways on the creation of standards and conventionsthat we all must adhere to. These conventions are often expressed in terms ofopposites—good and evil, beautiful and ugly, painful and pleasurable, rationaland irrational, intellectual and sensual. Believing in these opposites gives ourworld a sense of cohesion and comfort. To imagine that something can beintellectual and sensual, pleasurable and painful, real and unreal, good and bad,masculine and feminine is too chaotic and disturbing for us. Life, however, ismore fluid and complex; our desires and experiences do not fit neatly into thesetidy categories.As the work of Teresita Fernández demonstrates, the real and the unreal areconcepts that exist for us as ideas and constructions, and thus can be played with,altered, commanded, and transformed at will. Those who think in dualities—believing that there is such a thing as “real” and such a thing as “unreal,” andthat they are distinct entities that can never become blended into a third,alchemical element—are creatively limited, and their work can quickly becomedead and predictable. To maintain a dualistic approach to life requires that werepress many observable truths, but in our unconscious and in our dreams weoften let go of the need to create categories for everything, and are able to mixseemingly disparate and contradictory ideas and feelings together with ease.Your task as a creative thinker is to actively explore the unconscious andcontradictory parts of your personality, and to examine similar contradictionsand tensions in the world at large. Expressing these tensions within your work inany medium will create a powerful effect on others, making them senseunconscious truths or feelings that have been obscured or repressed. You look atsociety at large and the various contradictions that are rampant—for instance, theway in which a culture that espouses the ideal of free expression is charged withan oppressive code of political correctness that tamps free expression down. In an oppressive code of political correctness that tamps free expression down. Inscience, you look for ideas that go against the existing paradigm, or that seeminexplicable because they are so contradictory. All of these contradictionscontain a rich mine of information about a reality that is deeper and morecomplex than the one immediately perceived. By delving into the chaotic andfluid zone below the level of consciousness where opposites meet, you will besurprised at the exciting and fertile ideas that will come