our minds never stopped. Wewere open to new experiences and absorbed as much of them as possible. Welearned fast, because the world around us excited us. When we felt frustrated or upset, we would find some creative way to get what we wanted and then quicklyforget the problem as something new crossed our path.All the greatest strategists--Alexander the Great, Napoleon, Musashi--werechildlike in this respect. Sometimes, in fact, they even acted like children. Thereason is simple: superior strategists see things as they are. They are highlysensitive to dangers and opportunities. Nothing stays the same in life, andkeeping up with circumstances as they change requires a great deal of mentalfluidity. Great strategists do not act according to preconceived ideas; theyrespond to the moment, like children. Their minds are always moving, and theyare always excited and curious. They quickly forget the past--the present is muchtoo interesting.Defeat is bitter. Bitter to the common soldier, but trebly bitter to his general.The soldier may comfort himself with the thought that, whatever the result, hehas done his duty faithfully and steadfastly, but the commander has failed inhis duty if he has not won victory--for that is his duty. He has no othercomparable to it. He will go over in his mind the events of the campaign."Here," he will think, "I went wrong; here I took counsel of my fears when Ishould have been bold; there I should have waited to gather strength, notstruck piecemeal; at such a moment I failed to grasp opportunity when it waspresented to me." He will remember the soldiers whom he sent into the attackthat failed and who did not come back. He will recall the look in the eyes ofmen who trusted him. "I have failed them," he will say to himself, "and failedmy country!" He will see himself for what he is--a defeated general. In a darkhour he will turn in upon himself and question the very foundations of hisleadership and manhood. And then he must stop! For if he is ever tocommand in battle again, he must shake off these regrets, and stamp on them,as they claw at his will and his self-confidence. He must beat off these attackshe delivers against himself, and cast out the doubts born of failure. Forgetthem, and remember only the lessons to be learned from defeat--they aremore than from victory.DEFEAT INTO VICTORY, WILLIAM SLIM, 1897-1970The Greek thinker Aristotle thought that life was defined by movement.What does not move is dead. What has speed and mobility has morepossibilities, more life. We all start off with the mobile mind of a Napoleon, butas we get older, we tend to become more like the Prussians. You may think thatwhat you'd like to recapture from your youth is your looks, your physical fitness,your simple pleasures, but what you really need is the fluidity of mind you once possessed. Whenever you find your thoughts revolving around a particularsubject or idea--an obsession, a resentment--force them past it. Distract yourselfwith something else. Like a child, find something new to be absorbed by,something