the army youlead. Authority: Thus the army...moves for advantage, and changes throughsegmenting and reuniting. Thus its speed is like the wind, its slownesslike the forest; its invasion and plundering like a fire.... It is as difficult toknow as the darkness; in movement it is like thunder.--The Art of War, Sun-tzu, (fourth century B.C.)REVERSALSince the structure of your army has to be suited to the people who compose it,the rule of decentralization is flexible: some people respond better to rigidauthority. Even if you run a looser organization, there may be times when youwill have to tighten it and give your officers less freedom. Wise generals setnothing in stone, always retaining the ability to reorganize their army to fit thetimes and their changing needs. TRANSFORM YOUR WAR INTO A CRUSADEMORALE STRATEGIESThe secret to motivating people and maintaining their morale is to get them tothink less about themselves and more about the group. Involve them in a cause, acrusade against a hated enemy. Make them see their survival as tied to thesuccess of the army as a whole. In a group in which people have truly bonded,moods and emotions are so contagious that it becomes easy to infect your troopswith enthusiasm. Lead from the front: let your soldiers see you in the trenches,making sacrifices for the cause. That will fill them with the desire to emulate andplease you. Make both rewards and punishments rare but meaningful.Remember: a motivated army can work wonders, making up for any lack ofmaterial resources.THE ART OF MAN MANAGEMENTWe humans are selfish by nature. Our first thoughts in any situation revolvearound our own interests: How will this affect me? How will it help me? At thesame time, by necessity, we try to disguise our selfishness, making our motiveslook altruistic or disinterested. Our inveterate selfishness and our ability todisguise it are problems for you as a leader. You may think that the peopleworking for you are genuinely enthusiastic and concerned--that is what they say,that is what their actions suggest. Then slowly you see signs that this person orthat is using his or her position in the group to advance purely personal interests.One day you wake up to find yourself leading an army of selfish, connivingindividuals.You can do nothing with an army that is an amalgam of a hundred peoplehere, a hundred people there, and so on. What can be achieved with fourthousand men, united and standing shoulder to shoulder, you cannot do withforty or even four hundred thousand men who are divided and pulled this wayand that by internal conflicts....RULES OF WAR AND BRAVERY, MUBARAKSHAH, PERSIA,THIRTEENTH CENTURY That is when you start thinking about morale--about finding a way tomotivate your troops and forge them into a group. Perhaps you try artfully topraise people, to offer them the possibility of reward--only to find you havespoiled them, strengthening their selfishness. Perhaps you try punishments anddiscipline--only to make them resentful and defensive. Perhaps you try to firethem up with speeches and group activities--but people are cynical nowadays;they will see right through you.The problem