coming toan end, and facing the prospect of being a bookbinder for life, Faraday went intodesperation mode. He wrote letters to the president of the Royal Society andapplied for the most menial jobs in any kind of laboratory. He was relentless,and yet months went by with no results. Then one day, out of the blue, hereceived a message from Humphry Davy’s office. The chemist had been blindedby yet another explosion in his laboratory at the Royal Institution, and thecondition would last for several days. During this time he needed a personalassistant to take notes and organize his materials. Mr. Dance, a good friend ofDavy’s, had recommended young Faraday for the job.There seemed something fateful, even magical, in this occurrence. Faradaywould have to make the most of it, do whatever he could to impress the greatchemist. Awestruck to be in Davy’s presence, Faraday listened with utmostintensity to every one of his instructions and did more than was asked for. WhenDavy, however, had recovered his sight, he thanked Faraday for his work butmade it clear that the Royal Institution already had a laboratory assistant andthere were simply no openings for him on any level.Faraday felt despondent, but he was not ready to give up; he would not letthis be the end. Only a few days in Davy’s presence had revealed so manylearning possibilities. Davy liked to talk about his ideas as they occurred to himand gain feedback from anyone around him. Discussing with Faraday oneexperiment he was planning afforded the young man a glimpse into how hismind worked, and it was fascinating. Davy would be the ultimate mentor, andFaraday determined that he would have to make this happen. He went back tothe notes he had taken on Davy’s lectures. He worked them into a beautifullyorganized booklet, carefully handwritten, and full of sketches and diagrams. Hesent this off to Davy as a gift. He then wrote to him a few weeks later, remindingDavy about the experiment he had mentioned but had probably forgotten about—Davy was notoriously absentminded. Faraday heard nothing. But then oneday, in February 1813, he was suddenly summoned to the Royal Institution.That same morning the Institution’s laboratory assistant had been fired forinsubordination. They needed to replace him immediately, and Davy hadrecommended young Faraday. The job mostly involved cleaning bottles and recommended young Faraday. The job mostly involved cleaning bottles andequipment, sweeping, and lighting fireplaces. The pay was low, considerablylower than what he could gain as a bookbinder, but Faraday, hardly believing hisgood fortune, accepted on the spot.His education was so rapid it shocked him; it was nothing like the progresshe had made on his own. Under his mentor’s supervision, he learned how toprepare Davy’s chemical mixtures, including some of the more explosivevarieties. He was taught the rudiments of chemical analysis from perhaps thegreatest living practitioner of the art. His responsibilities began to grow, and hewas given access to the lab for his own experiments. He worked night and day tobring a much-needed order to the laboratory and its shelves. And slowly,