disenchanted with the top-down form of research inlinguistics and the ideas it led to, but also with his work as a missionary. Thesewere both attempts to impose on the Pirahã alien ideas and values. He could onlyimagine that spreading the Gospel and converting them to Christianity wouldcompletely ruin their culture, which had shaped itself so perfectly to theircircumstances and made them so content. With these ideas, he lost his faith inChristianity itself, and finally left the church. Learning an alien culture from sodeeply inside it, he could no longer accept the superiority of one particular beliefor value system. To hold such an opinion, he determined, is merely an illusionthat comes from remaining on the outside. For many researchers in circumstances similar to Daniel Everett’s, the naturalresponse is to rely on the skills and concepts they have learned for researchpurposes. This would mean studying the Pirahã as closely as Everett had done inthe beginning, taking extensive notes, and trying to make this alien culture fitinto the framework already designated by the prevailing theories in linguisticsand anthropology. Doing so, such researchers would be rewarded with articles inprestigious journals and solid positions within academia. But in the end theywould remain on the outside looking in, and a good portion of their conclusionswould simply be confirmations of what they had already assumed. The wealth ofinformation that Everett had uncovered about their language and culture wouldremain unnoticed. Imagine how often this has occurred in the past and stilloccurs in the present, and how many secrets of indigenous cultures have beenlost to us because of this outsider approach.Part of this predilection for the outside perspective originates from aprejudice among scientists. Studying from the outside, many would say,preserves our objectivity. But what kind of objectivity is it when the researcher’sperspective is tainted by so many assumptions and predigested theories? Thereality of the Pirahã could only be seen from within and from participating intheir culture. This does not taint the observer with subjectivity. A scientist canparticipate from within and yet retain his or her reasoning powers. Everett couldstand back from their culture and devise his IEP theory. The intuitive and therational, the inside perspective and science, can easily coexist. For Everett,choosing this inside path required a great deal of courage. It meant physicallysubjecting himself to the dangers of their life in the jungle. It led to a difficultconfrontation with other linguists and all of the problems such conflict presentedfor his future career as a professor. It led to a profound disenchantment withChristianity, which had meant so much to him as a young man. But he felt compelled to do so by his desire to uncover the reality. And by moving in thisunconventional direction, he was able to master an unbelievably complexlanguage system and gain invaluable insights into their culture and the role ofculture in general.Understand: we can never really experience what other people areexperiencing. We always remain on the outside looking in, and this is the causeof so many misunderstandings and conflicts. But the primal source of humanintelligence