about with scarves, similar to thework of Isadora Duncan.At first, Graham was not considered a promising dancer. She was shy,always staying toward the back of the class. She was not particularly built for theart (she did not have a lithe ballerina’s body), and she was slow to pick up thechoreography. But when she was given her first solo, St. Denis and Shawn sawsomething that surprised them: she exploded with an energy they had notsuspected in her. She had charisma. St. Denis compared her to “a young suspected in her. She had charisma. St. Denis compared her to “a youngtornado” when she took the stage. Everything they taught her she had a way oftransforming into something sharper and more aggressive.After several years she became one of their leading students, a majorperformer in their troupe and a teacher of the Denishawn method, as it came tobe known. But soon she began to tire of this form of dancing. It did not suit hertemperament. To get some distance from the school she moved to New York,and to support herself she taught classes in the Denishawn method. Then one dayin 1926, perhaps upset at her leaving the troupe, Ted Shawn surprised her withan ultimatum—she would have to pay $500 for the right to teach Denishawnexercises and dance material. If not, she was strictly forbidden, under penalty ofa lawsuit, ever to use any of their methods in her classes or personal work.For Graham, this precipitated a crisis of sorts. She was now thirty-two yearsold, no longer young for a career in dance. She had barely $50 to her name,which meant that she could never pay Shawn even if she had wanted to. To earnextra money she had already tried working in popular dance shows on Broadwayand had hated it, vowing never to go back. But as she weighed her options, oneidea kept recurring to her. In her mind she had always been able to envision akind of dance that did not exist in the world but that spoke to her innermostdesires, both as a performer and a spectator. This dance was the polar opposite ofthe Denishawn method, which now seemed to her like empty, arty gesturing. Itwas more related to what she had seen of modern art—somewhat jagged andoccasionally dissonant, full of power and rhythm. It was a visceral form of dancethat she envisioned, and as she imagined it her thoughts kept returning to herfather and their discussions about the body, about the language that all animalsexpress through their movement.This dance she could visualize was rigorous, based on a new kind ofdiscipline—not at all free-floating and spontaneous like the Denishawn style. Itwould have its own vocabulary. She could not shake the image of the beauty ofthis nonexistent dance. She would never have this chance again. With age comesconservatism and the need for comfort. To create what was not out there, shewould have to start her own school and dance troupe, building up the techniqueand discipline on her own. To support herself, she would have to