first novel. From somewhere deep inside, all of herpast experiences, her lengthy and multifaceted apprenticeship, rose to the surface—the stories from her childhood, the books she had read here and there over theyears, the various insights into the dark side of human nature, theanthropological studies, every encounter that she had paid attention to with somuch intensity. This novel, Jonah’s Gourd Vine, would recount the relationshipof her parents, but it was really the distillation of all of her life’s work. It spilledout of her in a few intense months.The novel was published the following year and became a great success.Over the next few years she wrote more novels at a furious pace. She soonbecame the most famous black writer of her time, and the first black femalewriter ever to make a living from her work. Zora Neale Hurston’s story reveals in its barest form the reality of theApprenticeship Phase—no one is really going to help you or give you direction.In fact, the odds are against you. If you desire an apprenticeship, if you want tolearn and set yourself up for mastery, you have to do it yourself, and with greatenergy. When you enter this phase, you generally begin at the lowest position.Your access to knowledge and people is limited by your status. If you are notcareful, you will accept this status and become defined by it, particularly if youcome from a disadvantaged background. Instead, like Hurston, you muststruggle against any limitations and continually work to expand your horizons.(In each learning situation you will submit to reality, but that reality does notmean you must stay in one place.) Reading books and materials that go beyondwhat is required is always a good starting point. Being exposed to ideas in thewide world, you will tend to develop a hunger for more and more knowledge;you will find it harder to remain satisfied in any narrow corner, which isprecisely the point.The people in your field, in your immediate circle, are like worlds untothemselves—their stories and viewpoints will naturally expand your horizonsand build up your social skills. Mingle with as many different types of people aspossible. Those circles will slowly widen. Any kind of outside schooling willadd to the dynamic. Be relentless in your pursuit for expansion. Whenever you add to the dynamic. Be relentless in your pursuit for expansion. Whenever youfeel like you are settling into some circle, force yourself to shake things up andlook for new challenges, as Hurston did when she left Howard for Harlem. Withyour mind expanding, you will redefine the limits of your apparent world. Soon,ideas and opportunities will come to you and your apprenticeship will naturallycomplete itself.3. Revert to a feeling of inferiorityAttending high school in the late 1960s, Daniel Everett was a bit of a lost soul.He felt trapped in the California border town of Holtville, where he grew up, andtotally disconnected to the local cowboy way of life. As narrated in chapter 1(see page 31), Everett had always been drawn to the Mexican culture that existedamong the migrant workers