constantpressure to produce more and more work. They had to produce at a relativelyhigh rate in order to keep the commissions coming and remain in the public eye.This influenced the quality of their work. A style had developed in which artistscould quickly create effects in their painting that would superficially exciteviewers. To create such effects they would depend on bright colors, unusualjuxtapositions and compositions, and dramatic scenes. In the process, they wouldinevitably gloss over the details in the background and even in the people theyportrayed. They did not pay much attention to the flowers or trees or the handsof figures in the foreground. They had to dazzle on the surface. Leonardorecognized this fact early in his career and it distressed him. It went against hisgrain in two ways—he hated the feeling of having to hurry with anything, and heloved immersing himself in details for their own sake. He was not interested increating surface effects. He was animated by a hunger to understand life formsfrom the inside out and to grasp the force that makes them dynamic, and tosomehow express all of this on a flat surface. And so, not fitting in, he went onhis own peculiar path, mixing science and art.To complete his quest, Leonardo had to become what he termed“universal”—for each object he had to be able to render all of its details, and hehad to extend this knowledge as far as possible, to as many objects in the worldas he could study. Through sheer accumulation of such details, the essence oflife itself became visible to him, and his understanding of this life force became life itself became visible to him, and his understanding of this life force becamevisible in his artwork.In your own work you must follow the Leonardo path. Most people don’thave the patience to absorb their minds in the fine points and minutiae that areintrinsically part of their work. They are in a hurry to create effects and make asplash; they think in large brush strokes. Their work inevitably reveals their lackof attention to detail—it doesn’t connect deeply with the public, and it feelsflimsy. If it gets attention, the attention is momentary. You must see whateveryou produce as something that has a life and presence of its own. This presencecan be vibrant and visceral, or it can be weak and lifeless. A character in a novel,for instance, will come to life for the reader if the writer has put great effort intoimagining the details of that character. The writer does not need to literally layout these details; readers will feel it in the work and will intuit the level ofresearch that went into the creation of it. All living things are an amalgam ofintricate levels of details, animated by the dynamic that connects them. Seeingyour work as something alive, your path to mastery is to study and absorb thesedetails in a universal fashion, to the point at which you feel the life force and canexpress it effortlessly in your work.5. Widen your vision—the Global PerspectiveEarly in