thedefeat of Napoleon at Waterloo and went on to dominate the military scene fordecades.In modern times the constant challenge to top the enemy with somethingnew and unconventional has taken a turn into dirty warfare. Loosening the codesof honor and morality that in the past limited what a general could do (at least tosome extent), modern armies have slowly embraced the idea that anything goes.Guerrilla and terrorist tactics have been known since ancient times; now theyhave become not only more common but more strategic and refined.Propaganda, disinformation, psychological warfare, deception, and politicalmeans of waging war have all become active ingredients in any unconventionalstrategy. A counterstrategy usually develops to deal with the latest in dirtywarfare, but it often involves falling to the enemy's level, fighting fire with fire.The dirty enemy adapts by sinking to a dirtier level still, creating a downwardspiral.This dynamic is particularly intense in warfare but it permeates every aspectof human activity. If you are in politics and business and your opponents orcompetitors come up with a novel strategy, you must adapt it for your ownpurposes or, better, top it. Their once new tactic becomes conventional andultimately useless. Our world is so fiercely competitive that one side will almostalways end up resorting to something dirty, something outside earlier codes ofaccepted behavior. Ignore this spiral out of a sense of morality or pride and youput yourself at a severe disadvantage; you are called to respond--in all likelihoodto fight a little dirty yourself.Everything which the enemy least expects will succeed the best. If he reliesfor security on a chain of mountains that he believes impracticable, and youpass these mountains by roads unknown to him, he is confused to start with,and if you press him he will not have time to recover from his consternation.In the same way, if he places himself behind a river to defend the crossingand you find some ford above or below on which to cross unknown to him,this surprise will derange and confuse him....FREDERICK THE GREAT, 1712-86 The spiral dominates not just politics or business but culture as well, with itsdesperate search for the shocking and novel to gain attention and win momentaryacclaim. Anything goes. The speed of the process has grown exponentially withtime; what was unconventional in the arts a few years ago now seemsunbearably trite and the height of conformity.What we consider unconventional has changed over the years, but the lawsthat make unconventionality effective, being based on elemental psychology, aretimeless. And these immutable laws are revealed in the history of warfare.Almost twenty-five hundred years ago, the great Chinese strategist Sun-tzuexpressed their essence in his discussion of ordinary and extraordinary means;his analysis is as relevant to modern politics and culture as it is to warfare,whether clean or dirty. And once you understand the essence of unconventionalwarfare, you will be able to use it in your daily life.Unconventional warfare has four main principles, as gleaned from the greatpractitioners of the art. Work outside the enemy's experience. Principles of war are based onprecedent: a kind of canon of strategies