made aware of his physical fragility andmortality, he retreated into himself and reassessed. The world of politics wasvicious and violent. To win an election, people would do anything, stooping toall kinds of personal attacks. The public official moving in this world was underpressure to be as unscrupulous as everyone else and survive as best he could--butthat approach did not suit Roosevelt personally and took too much out of himphysically. He decided to craft a different political style, one that would separatehim from the crowd and give him a constant advantage.In 1932, after a stint as governor of New York, Roosevelt ran as theDemocratic presidential nominee against the Republican incumbent, HerbertHoover. The country was in the midst of the Depression, and Hoover seemedincapable of dealing with it. Given the weakness of his record, a defensive handwas a difficult one for him to play, and, like the Democrats in 1920, he wentvigorously on the offensive, attacking Roosevelt as a socialist. Roosevelt in turntraveled the country, speaking on his ideas for getting America out of theDepression. He didn't give many specifics, nor did he respond to Hoover'sattacks directly--but he radiated confidence and ability. Hoover meanwhileseemed shrill and aggressive. The Depression would probably have doomed himto defeat whatever he did, but he lost far bigger than expected: the size ofRoosevelt's victory--nearly an electoral sweep--surprised one and all.In the weeks following the election, Roosevelt essentially hid from publicview. Slowly his enemies on the right began to use his absence to attack him,circulating speculation that he was unprepared for the challenge of the job. Thecriticisms became pointed and aggressive. At his inauguration, however,Roosevelt gave a rousing speech, and in his first months in office, now known as the "Hundred Days," he switched from the appearance of inactivity to a powerfuloffensive, hurrying through legislation that made the country feel as if somethingwere finally being done. The sniping died.Over the next few years, this pattern repeatedly recurred. Roosevelt wouldface resistance: The Supreme Court, say, would overturn his programs, andenemies on all sides (Senator Huey Long and labor leader John L. Lewis on theleft, Father Charles Coughlin and wealthy businessmen on the right) wouldlaunch hostile campaigns in the press. Roosevelt would retreat, ceding thespotlight. In his absence the attacks would seem to pick up steam, and hisadvisers would panic--but Roosevelt was just biding his time. Eventually, heknew, people would tire of these endless attacks and accusations, particularlybecause, by refusing to reply to them, he made them inevitably one-sided. Then--usually a month or two before election time--he would go on the offensive,defending his record and attacking his opponents suddenly and vigorouslyenough to catch them all off guard. The timing would also jolt the public,winning him their attention.In the periods when Roosevelt was silent, his opponents' attacks would grow,and grow more shrill--but that only gave him material he could use later, takingadvantage of their hysteria to make them ridiculous. The most famous exampleof this came in 1944, when that year's Republican presidential nominee, ThomasDewey, launched a series of personal attacks on