in the endless transmission of messages and orders or inconstantly monitoring your troops in the field. If you can disguise these exercises as play, as in the Great Hunt, so much the better.Throughout the 1940s and '50s, two great baseball organizations did battle:the Boston Red Sox, built around Ted Williams, and the New York Yankees,with their great hitter Joe DiMaggio. The owner of the Red Sox, Tom Yawkey,believed in pampering his players, creating a pleasant environment for them,developing friendships with them. A happy team would play well, he thought.For this purpose he went drinking with his men, played cards with them,checked them in to nice hotels on tour. He also meddled in managerial decisions,always with an eye toward making things better for his players and keeping themhappy.The Yankees' philosophy was very different, emphasizing discipline andvictory at all costs. The organization's separate parts stayed out of one another'sbusiness--they understood the team ethos and knew they would be judged onresults. The manager was left to make his own decisions. Yankee players felt anintense need to live up to the team's winning traditions; they were afraid oflosing.In those two decades, the Red Sox players fought among themselves, fellinto factions, whined and complained at any perceived slight, and won just onepennant. The Yankees were cohesive and spirited; they won thirteen pennantsand ten World Series. The lesson is simple: do not confuse a chummy, clublikeatmosphere with team spirit and cohesion. Coddling your soldiers and acting asif everyone were equal will ruin discipline and promote the creation of factions.Victory will forge stronger bonds than superficial friendliness, and victory comesfrom discipline, training, and ruthlessly high standards.Finally, you need to structure your group according to your soldiers'strengths and weaknesses, to their social circumstances. To do that you must beattuned to the human side of your troops; you must understand them, and thespirit of the times, inside and out.In a real sense, maximum disorder was our equilibrium.T. E. LAWRENCE, 1885-1935During the American Civil War, the Union generals struggled with the ragtagnature of their army. Unlike the disciplined, well-trained troops of theConfederacy, many Northern soldiers had been forcibly conscripted at the lastminute; they were pioneers, rugged frontiersmen, and they were fiercelyindependent. Some generals tried desperately to instill discipline, and mostlythey failed. Others just paid attention to map strategy, while their armiescontinued to perform badly. General William Tecumseh Sherman had a different solution: he changed hisorganization to suit the personalities of his men. He created a more democraticarmy, encouraged initiative in his officers, let them dress as they saw fit; heloosened outward discipline to foster morale and group spirit. Like frontiersmengenerally, his soldiers were restless and nomadic, so he exploited their mobilityand kept his army in perpetual motion, always marching faster than his enemiescould. Of all the Union armies, Sherman's were the most feared and performedthe best.Like Sherman, do not struggle with your soldiers' idiosyncrasies, but ratherturn them into a virtue, a way to increase your potential force. Be creative withthe group's structure, keeping your mind as fluid and adaptable as