treatment of his enemies, sent word that they wereready to surrender; but Petreius, horrified at this betrayal, ordered that anysoldier who supported Caesar be slaughtered. Then, determined to go down fighting, he led his remaining men out of the camp for battle--but Caesar refusedto engage. The soldiers were unable to fight.Finally, desperately low in supplies, Pompey's men surrendered. This timethey could expect the worst, for Caesar knew about the massacre in the camp--yet once again he pardoned Petreius and Afranius and simply disbanded theirarmy, giving the soldiers supplies and money for their return to Rome. Hearingof this, the Spanish cities still loyal to Pompey quickly changed sides. In a matterof three months, Roman Spain had been conquered through a combination ofmaneuver and diplomacy, and with barely a drop of blood spilled.In the following months, Pompey's political support in Rome evaporated. Allhe had left was his army. His defeat by Caesar at the Battle of Pharsalus, innorthern Greece, a year later merely put the seal on his inevitable destruction.InterpretationCaesar discovered early on in his political life that there are many ways toconquer. Most people advance more or less directly, attempting to overpowertheir opponents. But unless they kill the foes they beat this way, they are merelycreating long-term enemies who harbor deep resentment and will eventuallymake trouble. Enough such enemies and life becomes dangerous.Caesar found another way to do battle, taking the fight out of his enemiesthrough strategic and cunning generosity. Disarmed like this, enemy becomesally, negative becomes positive. Later on, if necessary, when the former foe'sguard is down, you can exact retribution, as Caesar did with the pirates. Behavemore gently, though, and your enemy may become your best follower. So it waswith Publius Clodius, who, after disgracing Caesar's home, became the devotedagent of the general's dirty work.When the Civil War broke out, Caesar understood that it was a politicalphenomenon as much as a military one--in fact, what mattered most was thesupport of the Senate and the Romans. His acts of mercy were part of acalculated campaign to disarm his enemies and isolate Pompey. In essence, whatCaesar was doing here was occupying his enemies' flank. Instead of attackingthem frontally and engaging them directly in battle, he would take their side,support their causes, give them gifts, charm them with words and favors. WithCaesar apparently on their side, both politically and psychologically they had nofront to fight against, nothing to oppose. In contact with Caesar, all hostilitytoward him melted away. This way of waging war allowed him to defeat themilitarily superior Pompey.THE TENTH LABOUR: THE CATTLE OF GERYON Heracles' Tenth Labour was to fetch the famous cattle of Geryon fromErytheia, an island near the Ocean stream, without either demand orpayment. Geryon, a son of Chrysaor and Callirrhoe, a daughter of the TitanOceanus, was the King of Tartessus in Spain, and reputedly the strongest manalive. He had been born with three heads, six hands, and three bodies joinedtogether at the waist. Geryon's shambling red cattle, beasts of marvellousbeauty, were guarded by the herdsman Eurytion, son