refused wine and always acted appropriately, moving withand not resisting nature, the Way of Heaven (T'ien Tao) was revealed to him.He subsequently harnessed the river waters not by fighting against them witha dam, but by yielding to them and clearing for them a wider channel withinwhich to run. Were it not for Yu, so the story goes, who herein personified thewisdom of both Confucius and Lao-tzu, the Taoist prophet, we would all befish.RELIGIOUS MYTHOLOGY AND THE ART OF WAR, JAMES A. AHO,1981Gandhi's arrest sparked a conflagration of protest. On May 21 a group of2,500 Indians marched peacefully on the government's Dharasana Salt Works,which was defended by armed Indian constables and British officers. When themarchers advanced on the factory, they were struck down with steel-plated clubs.Instructed in Gandhi's methods of nonviolence, the demonstrators made noattempt to defend themselves, simply submitting to the blows that rained downon them. Those who had not been hit continued to march until almost every lastone had been clubbed. It was a nauseating scene that got a great deal of play inthe press. Similar incidents all over India helped to destroy the last sentimentalattachment any Indians still had toward England.To end the spiraling unrest, Irwin was finally forced to negotiate withGandhi, and, on several issues, to give ground--an unprecedented event for anEnglish imperialist viceroy. Although the end of the Raj would take severalyears, the Salt March would prove to be the beginning of the end, and in 1947the English finally left India without a fight.InterpretationGandhi was a deceptively clever strategist whose frail, even saintly appearanceconstantly misled his adversaries into underestimating him. The key to anysuccessful strategy is to know both one's enemy and oneself, and Gandhi,educated in London, understood the English well. He judged them to beessentially liberal people who saw themselves as upholding traditions of politicalfreedom and civilized behavior. This self-image--though riddled withcontradictions, as indicated by their sometimes brutal behavior in their colonies--was deeply important to the English. The Indians, on the other hand, had beenhumiliated by many years of subservience to their English overlords. They werelargely unarmed and in no position to engage in an insurrection or guerrilla war. If they rebelled violently, as other colonies had done, the English would crushthem and claim to be acting out of self-defense; their civilized self-image wouldsuffer no damage. The use of nonviolence, on the other hand--an ideal andphilosophy that Gandhi deeply valued and one that had a rich tradition in India--would exploit to perfection the English reluctance to respond with force unlessabsolutely necessary. To attack people who were protesting peacefully would notjibe with the Englishman's sense of his own moral purity. Made to feel confusedand guilty, the English would be paralyzed with ambivalence and wouldrelinquish the strategic initiative.The Salt March is perhaps the quintessential example of Gandhi's strategicbrilliance. First, he deliberately chose an issue that the British would considerharmless, even laughable. To respond with force to a march about salt wouldhave given an Englishman trouble. Then, by identifying his apparently trivialissue in his letter to Irwin, Gandhi