death is premeditation of freedom. . . . He who has learned how to die has unlearned how to be a slave. Knowing how to die frees us from all subjection and constraint. —Michel de Montaigne F Acknowledgments irst and foremost, I would like to thank Anna Biller for her assistance on so many aspects of this book—including her deft editing, the endless insightful ideas she supplied me during our discussions, and all the love and support during the writing. This book would not be possible without her many contributions, and I am eternally grateful. I would like to thank my agent, Michael Carlisle of Inkwell Management, master of human nature, for all his invaluable advice and assistance on the project. Also at Inkwell, my thanks go to Michael Mungiello, and to Alexis Hurley, for bringing the book to a global audience. I have many people to thank at Penguin, most important of all my editor, Andrea Schulz, for all her much appreciated work on the text, and our numerous conversations in which she helped sharpen the concept and share with me her own insights on human nature. I must also thank the original editor on the project, Carolyn Carlson, as well as Melanie Tortoroli for her editorial contributions. I would also like to thank Andrea’s assistant, Emily Neuberger; the designer of the cover Colin Webber; in the marketing department, Kate Stark and Mary Stone; and Carolyn Coleburn and Shannon Twomey for their work on the publicity front. I must also thank Andrew Franklin, publisher of Profile Books in England, who has been there for all six of my books, and whose literary and publishing acumen I can always count on. As always, I must thank my former apprentice and now bestselling author and master strategist Ryan Holiday for all of his research suggestions, marketing help, and overall wisdom. I cannot forget to thank my cat, Brutus, who has now overseen the production of my last five books and who has helped me understand the human animal from a very different perspective. I would like to thank my dear sister, Leslie, for all her love, support, and many ideas she has inspired over the years. And of course I must thank my very patient mother, Laurette, for everything she has done for me, not least of all instilling in me a love of books and history. And finally, I would like to thank all those innumerable people throughout my life who’ve shown me the worst and the best in human nature, and who’ve supplied me endless material for this book. Selected Bibliography Adler, Alfred. Understanding Human Nature: The Psychology of Personality. Translated by Colin Brett. Oxford: Oneworld Publications, 2011. Allport, Gordon W. The Nature of Prejudice . Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1979. Ammaniti, Massimo, and Vittorio Gallese. The Birth of Intersubjectivity: Psychodynamics, Neurobiology, and the Self. New York: W.W. Norton, 2014. Arendt, Hannah. Between Past and Future . New York: Penguin Books, 1993. Argyle, Michael. Bodily Communication . New York: Routledge,