goal and subject your work tointensive self-criticism. All of this requires a great deal of flexibility, whichmeans you must not get too hung up on any single frame of mind. You mustbend to the moment and adopt the attitude appropriate to the moment.Flexibility is not an easy or natural quality to develop. Once you spend aperiod of time being excited and hopeful about an idea, you will find it hard toshift to a more critical position. Once you look at your work with intensity anddoubt, you will lose your optimism and your love of what you do. Avoidingthese problems takes practice and often some experience—when you havepushed past the doubt before, you will find it easier the next time. In any event,you must avoid emotional extremes and find a way to feel optimism and doubt at you must avoid emotional extremes and find a way to feel optimism and doubt atthe same time—a difficult sensation to describe in words, but something allMasters have experienced. We are all in search of feeling more connected to reality—to other people, thetimes we live in, the natural world, our character, and our own uniqueness. Ourculture increasingly tends to separate us from these realities in various ways. Weindulge in drugs or alcohol, or engage in dangerous sports or risky behavior, justto wake ourselves up from the sleep of our daily existence and feel a heightenedsense of connection to reality. In the end, however, the most satisfying andpowerful way to feel this connection is through creative activity. Engaged in thecreative process we feel more alive than ever, because we are making somethingand not merely consuming, Masters of the small reality we create. In doing thiswork, we are in fact creating ourselves.Although it involves much pain, the pleasure that comes from the overallprocess of creativity is of an intensity that makes us want to repeat it. That iswhy creative people return again and again to such endeavors, despite all of theanxiety and doubt they stir up. It is nature’s way of rewarding us for the effort; ifwe had no such rewards, people would not engage in such activity, and mankindwould suffer irreparably from this loss. This pleasure will be your reward aswell, to whatever degree you pursue the process.STRATEGIES FOR THE CREATIVE-ACTIVE PHASEDon’t think about why you question, simply don’t stop questioning. Don’t worry about whatyou can’t answer, and don’t try to explain what you can’t know. Curiosity is its own reason.Aren’t you in awe when you contemplate the mysteries of eternity, of life, of the marvelousstructure behind reality? And this is the miracle of the human mind—to use its constructions,concepts, and formulas as tools to explain what man sees, feels and touches. Try tocomprehend a little more each day. Have holy curiosity.—ALBERT EINSTEINAs future Masters emerge from their apprenticeships, they all face the samedilemma: no one has ever really instructed them about the creative process, andthere are no real books or teachers to turn to. Struggling on their own to becomemore active and imaginative with the