were unsure what he was doing, what came to the surfacein these conversations were your own confusion and doubt. He altered yourexperience of the world from within.Think of this method as communication-in-depth. Normal discourse, andeven fine writing and art, usually only hits people on the surface. Our attempts tocommunicate with them become absorbed in all of the noise that fills their earsin daily life. Even if something we say or do somehow touches an emotionalchord and creates some kind of connection, it rarely stays in their minds longenough to alter how they think and act. A lot of the time, these surfacecommunications are fine; we cannot go through life straining to reach everyone--that would be too exhausting. But the power to reach people more deeply, toalter their ideas and unpleasant behavior, is sometimes critical. What you need to pay attention to is not simply the content of yourcommunication but the form--the way you lead people to the conclusions youdesire, rather than telling them the message in so many words. If you wantpeople to change a bad habit, for example, much more effective than simplytrying to persuade them to stop is to show them--perhaps by mirroring their badbehavior in some way--how annoying that habit feels to other people. If youwant to make people with low self-esteem feel better about themselves, praisehas a superficial effect; instead you must prod them into accomplishingsomething tangible, giving them a real experience. That will translate into amuch deeper feeling of confidence. If you want to communicate an importantidea, you must not preach; instead make your readers or listeners connect thedots and come to the conclusion on their own. Make them internalize the thoughtyou are trying to communicate; make it seem to emerge from their own minds.Such indirect communication has the power to penetrate deep behind people'sdefenses.In speaking this new language, learn to expand your vocabulary beyondexplicit communication. Silence, for instance, can be used to great effect: bykeeping quiet, not responding, you say a lot; by not mentioning something thatpeople expect you to talk about, you call attention to this ellipsis, make itcommunicate. Similarly, the details--what Machiavelli calls le cose piccole (thelittle things)--in a text, speech, or work of art have great expressive power. Whenthe famous Roman lawyer and orator Cicero wanted to defame the character ofsomeone he was prosecuting, he would not accuse or rant; instead he wouldmention details from the life of the accused--the incredible luxury of his home(was it paid for out of illegal means?), the lavishness of his parties, the style ofhis dress, the little signs that he considered himself superior to the averageRoman. Cicero would say these things in passing, but the subtext was clear.Without hitting listeners over the head, it directed them to a certain conclusion.In any period it can be dangerous to express ideas that go against the grain ofpublic opinion or offend notions of correctness. It is best to seem to conform tothese norms, then, by parroting the accepted wisdom, including the proper moralending. But you can use details