rear. It was a massacre: 300 Turkish soldiers were killedand the rest taken prisoner.Now the Turkish commanders at Aqaba finally saw Lawrence's game: hehad cut them off from the railway line on which they depended for supplies.Also, seeing the Howeitat's success, other Arab tribes around Aqaba joined upwith Lawrence, creating a powerful army that began to wend its way through thenarrow gorges toward Aqaba. The Turks had never imagined an army comingfrom this direction; their fortifications faced the other way, toward the sea andthe British. The Arabs had a reputation for ruthlessness with enemies whoresisted, and the commanders of the forts in back of Aqaba began to surrender.The Turks sent out their 300-man garrison from Aqaba to put a stop to thisadvance, but they were quickly surrounded by the swelling number of Arabs.On July 6 the Turks finally surrendered, and their commanders watched inshock as Lawrence's ragtag army rushed to the sea to take what had been thoughtto be an impregnable position. With this one blow, Lawrence had completelyaltered the balance of power in the Middle East.InterpretationThe fight between Britain and Turkey during World War I superbly demonstratesthe difference between a war of attrition and a war of maneuver. BeforeLawrence's brilliant move, the British, fighting by the rules of attrition warfare,had been directing the Arabs to capture key points along the railway line. Thisstrategy had played into Turkish hands: the Turks had too few men to patrol theentire line, but once they saw the Arabs attacking at any one place, they couldquickly move the men they had and use their superior firepower to either defendit or take it back. Lawrence--a man with no military background, but blessedwith common sense--saw the stupidity in this right away. Around the railwayline were thousands of square miles of desert unoccupied by the Turks. The Arabs had been masters at a mobile form of warfare on camelback since the daysof the prophet Mohammed; vast space at their disposal gave them infinitepossibilities for maneuvers that would create threats everywhere, forcing theTurks to bunker themselves in their forts. Frozen in place, the Turks wouldwither from lack of supplies and would be unable to defend the surroundingregion. The key to the overall war was to spread the revolt north, towardDamascus, allowing the Arabs to threaten the entire railway line. But to spreadthe revolt north, they needed a base in the center. That base was Aqaba.The British were as hidebound as the Turks and simply could not picture acampaign of a group of Arabs led by a liaison officer. Lawrence would have todo it on his own. Tracing a series of great loops in the vast spaces of the desert,he left the Turks bewildered as to his purpose. Knowing that the Turks feared anattack on Damascus, he deliberately spread the lie that he was aiming for it,making the Turks send troops on a wild-goose chase to the north. Then,exploiting their inability to imagine an Arab attack on Aqaba from the landwardside (a failing they shared with his British countrymen),