get it and once it was in his possession, hehurried into a large closet and watched the flickering images it projected on thewall. It seemed like something had magically come to life each time he turned iton. To produce such magic would become his lifelong obsession.Sometimes this inclination becomes clear through a particular activity that bringswith it a feeling of heightened power. As a child, Martha Graham (1894–1991)felt intensely frustrated by her inability to make others understand her in a deepway; words seemed inadequate. Then one day, she saw her first danceperformance. The lead dancer had a way of expressing certain emotions throughmovement; it was visceral, not verbal. She started dance lessons soon thereafterand immediately understood her vocation. Only when dancing could she feelalive and expressive. Years later she would go on to invent a whole new form ofdance and revolutionize the genre.Sometimes it is not an object or activity but rather something in culture thatsparks a deep connection. The contemporary anthropologist-linguist Daniel sparks a deep connection. The contemporary anthropologist-linguist DanielEverett (b. 1951) grew up on the California-Mexico border, in a cowboy town.From a very early age, he found himself drawn to the Mexican culture aroundhim. Everything about it fascinated him—the sound of the words spoken by themigrant workers, the food, the manners that were so different from the Angloworld. He immersed himself as much as he could in their language and culture.This would transform into a lifelong interest in the Other—the diversity ofcultures on the planet and what that means about our evolution.And sometimes one’s true inclinations can be revealed through an encounterwith an actual Master. As a young boy growing up in North Carolina, JohnColtrane (1926–67) felt different and strange. He was much more serious thanhis schoolmates; he experienced emotional and spiritual longings he did notknow how to verbalize. He drifted into music more as a hobby, taking up thesaxophone and playing in his high school band. Then a few years later he sawthe great jazz saxophonist Charlie “Bird” Parker perform live, and the soundsParker produced touched Coltrane to the core. Something primal and personalcame through Parker’s saxophone, a voice from deep within. Coltrane suddenlysaw the means for expressing his uniqueness and giving a voice to his ownspiritual longings. He began to practice the instrument with such intensity thatwithin a decade he transformed himself into perhaps the greatest jazz artist of hisera. You must understand the following: In order to master a field, you must love thesubject and feel a profound connection to it. Your interest must transcend thefield itself and border on the religious. For Einstein, it was not physics but afascination with invisible forces that governed the universe; for Bergman, it wasnot film but the sensation of creating and animating life; for Coltrane, it was notmusic but giving voice to powerful emotions. These childhood attractions arehard to put into words and are more like sensations—that of deep wonder,sensual pleasure, power, and heightened awareness. The importance ofrecognizing these preverbal inclinations is that they are clear indications of