secret agents shouldnot be tolerated, as tending to augment the positive dangers of the evilagainst which they are used. That the spy will fabricate his information is acommonplace. But in the sphere of political and revolutionary action, relyingpartly on violence, the professional spy has every facility to fabricate the veryfacts themselves, and will spread the double evil of emulation in onedirection, and of panic, hasty legislation, unreflecting hate, on the other.THE SECRET AGENT, JOSEPH CONRAD, 1857-1924 OVERWHELM RESISTANCE WITH SPEED ANDSUDDENNESSTHE BLITZKRIEG STRATEGYIn a world in which many people are indecisive and overly cautious, the use ofspeed will bring you untold power. Striking first, before your opponents havetime to think or prepare, will make them emotional, unbalanced, and prone toerror. When you follow with another swift and sudden maneuver, you will inducefurther panic and confusion. This strategy works best with a setup, a lull--yourunexpected action catches your enemy off guard. When you strike, hit withunrelenting force. Acting with speed and decisiveness will garner you respect,awe, and irresistible momentum.War is such that the supreme consideration is speed. This is to take advantageof what is beyond the reach of the enemy, to go by way of routes where heleast expects you, and to attack where he has made no preparations. SUN-TZU, FOURTH CENTURY B.C.SLOW-SLOW-QUICK-QUICKIn 1218, Muhammad II, the shah of Khwarizm, received a visit from threeambassadors on behalf of Genghis Khan, the leader of the Mongol Empire to theeast. The visitors bore magnificent gifts and, more important, the offer of a treatybetween the two powers that would allow the reopening of the lucrative SilkRoad connecting China and Europe. The shah's empire was immense,incorporating present-day Iran and much of Afghanistan. His capital,Samarkand, was fabulously wealthy, a symbol of his power, and increased tradealong the route would only add to these riches. Since the Mongols made it clearthey considered him the superior partner in the deal, the shah decided to sign thetreaty.A few months later, a Mongol caravan arrived in the city of Otrar, in thenortheastern corner of the shah's empire, with the mission to buy luxury itemsfor the Mongol court. The governor of Otrar suspected the men in the caravan ofbeing spies. He had them killed, and he seized the goods they had brought to barter. Hearing of this outrage, Genghis Khan dispatched an ambassador,escorted by two soldiers, to the shah, calling for an apology. The demand--whichpresumed to put the two empires on equal footing--incensed the shah. He had theambassador's head cut off and sent back to Genghis Khan. This, of course, meantwar.The shah was not afraid: his army, anchored by its well-trained Turkishcavalry, numbered over 400,000, at least twice the enemy's size. By defeating theMongols in battle, the shah could finally take over their land. He assumed theMongols would attack Transoxiana, the easternmost part of the shah's empire.Bordered to the east by the five-hundred-mile-long Syr Dar'ya River, to the northby the Kizil Kum Desert, and to the west by the Amu Dar'ya River,Transoxiana's interior was also home to two of the most