orirrelevant, it was considered merely a quirk in the system that would eventuallybe ironed out or simply accepted. By focusing on this one anomaly, Page andBrin were able to see a glaring weakness in the whole concept and to develop amuch different ranking algorithm—based on the number of times an article hadbeen linked to—which completely transformed the effectiveness and use of thesearch engine.For Charles Darwin, the crux of his theory came from looking at mutations.It is the strange and random variation in nature that often sets a species off in anew evolutionary direction. Think of anomalies as the creative form of suchmutations. They often represent the future, but to our eyes they seem strange. Bystudying them, you can illuminate this future before anyone else.Fixating on what is present, ignoring what is absent:In the Arthur Conan Doyle story “Silver Blaze,” Sherlock Holmes solves a crime by paying attention to what did not happen—the family dog had not barked. Thismeant that the murderer must have been someone the dog knew. What this storyillustrates is how the average person does not generally pay attention to what weshall call negative cues, what should have happened but did not. It is our naturaltendency to fixate on positive information, to notice only what we can see andhear. It takes a creative type such as Holmes to think more broadly andrigorously, pondering the missing information in an event, visualizing thisabsence as easily as we see the presence of something.For centuries, doctors considered diseases exclusively as somethingstemming from outside the body attacking it—a contagious germ, a draft of coldair, miasmic vapors, and so on. Treatment depended on finding drugs of somesort that could counteract the harmful effects of these environmental agents ofdisease. Then, in the early twentieth century, the biochemist Frederick GowlandHopkins, studying the effects of scurvy, had the idea to reverse this perspective.What caused the problem in this particular disease, he speculated, was not whatwas attacking from the outside, but what was missing from within the body itself—in this case what came to be known as vitamin C. Thinking creatively, he didnot look at what was present but precisely at what was absent, in order to solvethe problem. This led to his groundbreaking work on vitamins, and completelyaltered our concept of health.In business, the natural tendency is to look at what is already out there in themarketplace and to think of how we can make it better or cheaper. The real trick—the equivalent of seeing the negative cue—is to focus our attention on someneed that is not currently being met, on what is absent. This requires morethinking and is harder to conceptualize, but the rewards can be immense if we hitupon this unfulfilled need. One interesting way to begin such a thought processis to look at new and available technology in the world and to imagine how itcould be applied in a much different way, meeting a need that we sense existsbut that is not overly apparent. If the need is too obvious, others will already beworking