carelessness. Many have some remarkable and individual quality leading to eccentric actions. These are more defects than excellent diﬀerences. And just as some are known for some special ugliness, so these for something repellant in their outward behaviour. Such eccentricities simply serve as trademarks through their atrocious singularity: they cause either derision or ill-will. ccxxiv Never take Things against the Grain, no matter how they come. Everything has a smooth and a seamy side, and the best weapon wounds if taken by the blade, while the enemy's spear may be our best protection if taken by the staﬀ. Many things cause pain which would cause pleasure if you regarded their advantages. There is a favourable and an unfavourable side to everything, the cleverness consists in ﬁnding out the favourable. The same thing looks quite diﬀerent in another light; look at it therefore on its best side and do not exchange good for evil. Thus it haps that many ﬁnd joy , many grief, in everything. This remark is a great protection against the frowns of fortune, and a weighty rule of life for all times and all conditions. ccxxv Know your chief Fault. There lives none that has not in himself' a counterbalance to his most conspicuous merit: if this be nourished by desire it may grow to be a tyrant. Commence war against it, summoning prudence as your ally , and the ﬁrst thing to do is the public manifesto, for an evil once known is soon conquered, especially when the one aﬄicted regards it in the same light as the onlookers. To be master of oneself one should know oneself. If the chief imperfection surrender, the rest will come to an end. ccxxvi T ake care to be Obliging. Most talk and act, not as they are, but as they are obliged. To persuade people of ill is easy for any , since the ill is easily credited even when at times it is incredible. The best we have depends on the opinion of others. Some are satisﬁed if they have right on their side, but that is not enough, for it must be assisted by energy . To oblige persons often costs little and helps much. With words you may purchase deeds. In this great house of the world there is no chamber so hid that it may not be wanted one day in the year, and then you would miss it however little is its worth. Every one speaks of a subject according to his feelings. ccxxvii Do not be the Slave of First Impressions. Some marry the very ﬁrst account they hear: all others must live with them as concubines. But as a lie has swift legs, the truth with them can ﬁnd no lodging. W e should neither satisfy our will with the ﬁrst object nor our mind with the ﬁrst proposition: for that were superﬁcial. Many are like new casks who keep the scent of the ﬁrst liquor they hold, be it good