it all upfor him. But, in spite of all their efforts, they were unable to do so. Theploughman therefore undid the bundles and handed each of his sons a stick ata time. These they broke without any trouble. "So!" said the father, "you too,my children, if you stay bound together, can be invincible to your enemies.But if you are divided you will be easy to defeat." FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C.In attacking a group in order to sow division, be careful that your blow is nottoo strong, for it can have the opposite effect, causing people to unite in times ofgreat danger. That was Hitler's miscalculation during the London Blitz, hisbombing campaign designed to push England out of World War II. Intended todemoralize the British public, the Blitz only made them more determined: theywere willing to suffer short-term danger in order to beat him in the long run.This bonding effect was partly the result of Hitler's brutality, partly thephenomenon of a culture willing to suffer for the greater good.Finally, in a divided world, power will come from keeping your own groupunited and cohesive, and your own mind clear and focused on your goals. Thebest way to maintain unity may seem to be the creation of enthusiasm and highmorale, but while enthusiasm is important, in time it will naturally wane, and ifyou have come to depend on it, you will fail. Far greater defenses against theforces of division are knowledge and strategic thinking. No army or group canbe divided if it is aware of the enemy's intentions and makes an intelligentresponse. As Samuel Adams discovered, strategy is your only dependable swordand shield. EXPOSE AND ATTACK YOUR OPPONENT'SSOFT FLANKTHE TURNING STRATEGYWhen you attack people directly, you stiffen their resistance and make your taskthat much harder. There is a better way: distract your opponents' attention to thefront, then attack them from the side, where they least expect it. By hitting themwhere they are soft, tender, and unprotected, you create a shock, a moment ofweakness for you to exploit. Bait people into going out on a limb, exposing theirweakness, then rake them with fire from the side. The only way to get stubbornopponents to move is to approach them indirectly.The Emperor [Napoleon Bonaparte] , while he was quite prepared "to breakeggs to make omelettes," as von Clausewitz puts it, was always eager to gaintotal victory for a minimum expenditure of manpower and effort.Consequently he disliked having to force a full-scale, fully arrayed frontalbattle--that is to say, marching directly against the enemy to fight him onground of his (the adversary's) choosing, for such battles were inevitablyexpensive and rarely conclusive (Borodino in 1812 is a case in point).Instead, whenever possible, after pinning the foe frontally by a feint attack, hemarched his main army by the quickest possible "safe" route, hidden by thecavalry screen and natural obstacles, to place himself on the rear or flank ofhis opponent. Once this move had been successfully achieved, he occupied anatural barrier or "strategical curtain" (usually a river line or mountainrange),