to be the first ones tocrack the code of Pirahã.He and his family arrived at a Pirahã village in December 1977. In his firstfew days there, Everett used all of the strategies he had been taught—forinstance, holding up a stick and asking for their word for it, then dropping thestick and asking for the phrase to describe the action. In the months to come, hemade good progress learning basic vocabulary. The method he had learned atSIL worked well, and he worked assiduously. Every time he heard a new word,he wrote it down on three-by-five note cards. He punched holes in the corners ofthe cards, carried dozens of them on the loop of his pants, and repeatedlypracticed them with villagers. He tried to apply these words and phrases indifferent contexts, sometimes making the Pirahã laugh. Whenever he feltfrustrated, he would look at the Pirahã children who picked up the language withease. If they could learn it, so could he, he kept telling himself. But every timehe felt like he was learning more phrases, he had the equal sensation that he wasreally getting nowhere. He began to understand the frustration of the couple thathad preceded him.For instance, he kept hearing a word over and over again that seemed totranslate as “just now,” as in “the man had just now left.” But later, hearing it ina different context, he realized that it in fact referred to the precise moment whensomething appears or disappears—a person, a sound, anything. The phrase wasreally about the experience of such transitory moments, he decided, whichseemed to resonate a lot with the Pirahã. “Just now” did not begin to cover therich meanings of it. This started to happen with all kinds of words he thought hehad understood. He also began to discover things that were missing in theirlanguage that went against all of the linguistic theories he had been taught. They language that went against all of the linguistic theories he had been taught. Theyhad no words for numbers, no concept of right and left, no simple words thatdesignated colors. What could this mean?One day, after more than a year living there, he decided to accompany somePirahã men deep into the jungle, and to his surprise he discovered a whole otherside to their existence and language. They acted and spoke differently; theyemployed a different form of communication, talking to one another in elaboratewhistles that clearly replaced spoken language, making them stealthier in theirhunting forays. Their ability to navigate this dangerous environment wasimpressive.Suddenly something became clear to Everett: his decision to confine himselfto village life and simply to learn their language was the source of his problem.Their language could not be separated from their method of hunting, theirculture, their daily habits. He had unconsciously internalized a sense ofsuperiority to these people and their way of life—living among them like ascientist studying ants. His inability to pierce the secret of their language,however, revealed the inadequacies of his method. If he wanted to learn Pirahãas the children did, he would have to