become emotional and react imprudently. You have breached theirdefenses, and if you keep up the pressure and hit them again with somethingunexpected, you will send them into a kind of downward psychological spiral--pushing them into mistakes, which further deepens their confusion, and so thecycle goes on.Many of those who practiced a form of blitzkrieg warfare on the battlefieldused it to great effect in daily life. Julius Caesar--master of speed and surprise--was a great example of this. From out of the blue, he might form an alliance witha senator's bitterest enemy, forcing the senator either to change his opposition toCaesar or to risk a dangerous confrontation. Equally, he might unexpectedlypardon a man who had fought against him. Caught off guard, the man wouldbecome a loyal ally. Caesar's reputation for doing the unpredictable made peopleall the more cautious in his presence, further enhancing his ability to catch thosearound him unawares.But the genius in Ali takes his limitations and makes them virtues. Let us gostep by step. I can't think of a past heavyweight champion whose punchingpower wasn't superior to Ali's. Yet in his first twenty fights, Ali, then CassiusClay, won every one of them, scoring seventeen knockouts.... So what is Ali'smystery? Why does a man who every expert agrees has no punching powerknock most of his opponents out, including a one-punch K.O. over SonnyListon on Ali's first defense of his title? The answer is in speed and timing.Clay then, and Ali now, has the ability to let punches go with extremequickness, but most important, at the right moment, just before the man infront of him is able to put his boxer's sense of anticipation to work. When thathappens, the man getting hit doesn't see the punch. As a result, this man'sbrain can't prepare him to receive the impact of the blow. The eyes couldn'tsend the message back to the part of the body which would take the shock. Sowe arrive at one knockout of a conclusion: the punch that puts you to sleep isnot so much the hard punch as the punch that you don't see coming.STING LIKE A BEE, JOSE TORRES AND BERT RANDOLPH SUGAR,1971This strategy works wonders on those who are particularly hesitant andafraid of making any kind of mistake. In similar fashion, if you are facing anenemy that has divided leadership or internal cracks, a sudden and swift attackwill make the cracks larger and cause internal collapse. Half of the success of Napoleon Bonaparte's form of blitzkrieg warfare was that he used it againstarmies of allies in which several bickering generals were in charge of strategy.Once his army broke through these armies' defenses, dissension would break outand they would fall apart from within.The blitzkrieg strategy can be effective in diplomacy, too, as HenryKissinger demonstrated. The former U.S. secretary of state would often take histime when beginning diplomatic negotiations, lulling the other side with blandbanter. Then, with the deadline for the end of the talks approaching, he wouldsuddenly hit them with a list of demands. Without enough time to process