to drawon, thinking we can get what we want simply by trying harder. We start to seeeverything as limitless--the goodwill of friends, the possibility of wealth andfame. A few more classes and books and we can extend our talents and skills tothe point where we become different people. Technology can make anythingachievable.Abundance makes us rich in dreams, for in dreams there are no limits. But itmakes us poor in reality. It makes us soft and decadent, bored with what we haveand in need of constant shocks to remind us that we are alive. In life you must bea warrior, and war requires realism. While others may find beauty in endlessdreams, warriors find it in reality, in awareness of limits, in making the most ofwhat they have. Like the cat, they look for the perfect economy of motion andgesture--the way to give their blows the greatest force with the least expenditureof effort. Their awareness that their days are numbered--that they could die atany time--grounds them in reality. There are things they can never do, talentsthey will never have, lofty goals they will never reach; that hardly bothers them.Warriors focus on what they do have, the strengths that they do possess and thatthey must use creatively. Knowing when to slow down, to renew, to retrench,they outlast their opponents. They play for the long term.Through the final years of French colonial rule in Vietnam and on throughthe Vietnam War, the military leader of the Vietnamese insurgents was GeneralVo Nguyen Giap. In first the French and then the Americans, he faced an enemywith vastly superior resources, firepower, and training. His own army was aragtag collection of peasants; they had morale, a deep sense of purpose, but littleelse. Giap had no trucks to carry supplies, and his communications werenineteenth century. Another general would have tried to catch up, and Giap hadthe opportunity--he had the offer of trucks, radios, weapons, and training fromChina--but he saw them as a trap. It wasn't only that he didn't want to spend hislimited funds on such things; in the long run, he believed, all they would do wasturn the North Vietnamese into a weaker version of their enemy. Instead hechose to make the most of what he had, turning his army's weaknesses intovirtues.Trucks could be spotted from the air, and the Americans could bomb them.But the Americans could not bomb supply lines they could not see. Exploitinghis resources, then, Giap used a vast network of peasant coolies to carry supplieson their backs. When they came to a river, they would cross it on rope bridgeshung just below the surface of the water. Right up to the end of the war, theAmericans were still trying to figure out how North Vietnam supplied its armies in the field.Meanwhile Giap developed hit-and-run guerrilla tactics that gave himenormous potential to disrupt American supply lines. To fight, move troops, andferry supplies, the Americans used helicopters, which gave them tremendousmobility. But the war ultimately had to be fought on the ground, and Giap wasendlessly inventive in