is lying on the ground And he's roaming the ranks like a ram,That's it, just like a thick-fleeced ram Striding through a flock of silverysheep." And Helen, Zeus' child: "That is Laertes' son, The master strategistOdysseus, born and bred In the rocky hills of Ithaca. He knows Every trickthere is, and his mind runs deep." Antenor turned to her and observedastutely: "Your words are not off the mark there, madam. Odysseus came hereonce before, on an embassy For your sake along with Menelaus. I entertainedthem courteously in the great hall And learned each man's character anddepth of mind. Standing in a crowd of Trojans, Menelaus, With his wideshoulders, was more prominent, But when both were seated Odysseus waslordlier. When it came time for each to speak in public And weave a spell ofwisdom with their words, Menelaus spoke fluently enough, to the point Andvery clearly, but briefly, since he is not A man of many words. Being older, hespoke first. Then Odysseus, the master strategist, rose quickly, But just stoodthere, his eyes fixed on the ground. He did not move his staff forward orbackward But held it steady. You would have thought him A dull, surly loutwithout any wit. But when he Opened his mouth and projected his voice Thewords fell down like snowflakes in a blizzard. No mortal could have vied withOdysseus then, And we no longer held his looks against him." THE ILIAD, HOMER, CIRCA NINTH CENTURY B.C.The Greeks, however, also recognized the potential for a higher humanpossibility. Far above the sphere of mortals were the gods on Mount Olympus,who had perfect vision of the world and of both the past and the future; and thehuman race shared something with them as well as with animals--we were notonly part animal but part divine. Furthermore, those able to see further thanothers, to control their animal nature and think before they acted, were humansof the most deeply human kind--the ones best able to use the reasoning powersthat separate us from animals. As opposed to human stupidity (limited vision),the Greeks imagined an ideal human prudence. Its symbol was Odysseus, whoalways thought before he acted. Having visited Hades, the land of the dead, hewas in touch with ancestral history and the past; and he was also always curious,eager for knowledge, and able to view human actions, his own and otherpeople's, with a dispassionate eye, considering their long-term consequences. Inother words, like the gods, if to a lesser extent, he had the skill of looking intothe future. The consummate realist, the man of vision, Odysseus was a characterin the epic poetry of Homer, but there were also historical versions of the ideal:the political figure and military leader Themistocles, for example, and Alexanderthe Great, raised to heights of combined intellect and action by Aristotle.The prudent man might seem cold, his rationality sucking pleasure out oflife. Not so. Like the pleasure-loving gods on Mount Olympus, he has theperspective, the calm detachment, the ability to laugh, that come with truevision, which gives everything he does a