niche. Unburdened by overwhelming competition and politicking, you havetime and space to bring to flower your Life’s Task.3. Avoid the false path—The rebellion strategyIn 1760, at the age of four, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart took up the piano underhis father’s instruction. It was Wolfgang who asked to start lessons at thisprecocious age; his sister, age seven, had already started on the instrument.Perhaps it was partly out of sibling rivalry that he had taken such initiative,seeing the attention and love that his sister received for her playing and wantingit for himself.After the first few months of practice, his father, Leopold—a talented player,composer, and teacher himself—could see that Wolfgang was exceptional. Moststrange for his age, the boy loved to practice; at night his parents had to drag himaway from the piano. He began to compose his own pieces at the age of five.Soon, Leopold took this prodigy and his sister on the road to perform in all thecapitals of Europe. Wolfgang dazzled the royal audiences for whom heperformed. He played with assurance and could improvise all kinds of clevermelodies. He was like a precious toy. The father was now earning a nice incomefor the family, as more and more courts wanted to see the child genius in action.As the patriarch of the family, Leopold demanded total obedience from hischildren, even though it was now young Wolfgang who was essentiallysupporting them all. Wolfgang willingly submitted—he owed everything to hisfather. But as he entered adolescence something else stirred within him. Was itplaying the piano that he enjoyed, or simply attracting all of this attention? Hefelt confused. After so many years composing music he was finally developing his own style, and yet his father insisted that he focus on writing the moreconventional pieces that pleased the royal audiences and brought the familymoney. The city of Salzburg, where they lived, was provincial and bourgeois. Ingeneral, he yearned for something else, to be on his own. With each passingyear, Wolfgang felt increasingly stifled.Finally, in 1777, the father allowed Wolfgang—now twenty-one—to leavefor Paris, accompanied by his mother. There he must try to gain a prominentposition as conductor, so that he could continue supporting his family. ButWolfgang did not find Paris to his liking. The jobs he was offered seemedbeneath his talents. And then his mother fell ill while there and died on the wayback home. The trip was a disaster in all possible ways. Wolfgang returned toSalzburg, chastened and prepared to submit to his father’s will. He accepted arather uninteresting position as the court organist, but he could not completelysuppress his unease. He despaired of spending his life in this mediocre position,writing music to please these petty provincials. At one point, he wrote his father:“I am a composer…. I neither can nor ought to bury the talent for compositionwith which God in his goodness has so richly endowed me.”Leopold reacted to these increasingly frequent complaints of his son withanger, reminding him of the debt he owed him for all of the training he hadreceived and the expenses the father