flank, or rear for theother side to hit. The enemy would want to keep the war confined to a particularspace; better, then, to extend it over as much territory as possible, melting intothe countryside, forcing the enemy to disperse itself in the chase, opening itselfup to raids and pinprick attacks. The enemy would naturally want a quick end tothe war, so it was desirable to drag it out as long as possible, making time anoffensive weapon that consumed the enemy with friction and sagging morale.In this way, over thousands of years and through trial and error, the art ofguerrilla warfare developed and was refined into its present-day form.Conventional military training and thought revolve around concentrating forbattle, maneuvering within limited areas, and straining for the quick kill.Guerrilla warfare's reversal of this natural order of war makes it impossible for aconventional army to counter--hence its power. In the shadow land of reversewarfare, where none of the normal rules apply, the conventional army flounders.Done right, guerrilla warfare is virtually unbeatable.The word "guerrilla"--"small war" in Spanish--was coined in reference to thePeninsular War of 1808-14, which began when Napoleon invaded Spain.Melting into their country's mountains and inhospitable terrain, the Spaniardstortured the French, making it impossible for them to profit from their superiornumbers and weaponry. Napoleon was bedeviled by an enemy that attackedwithout forming a front or rear. The Cossack fighters who undid him in Russia in1812 had learned a lot from the Spanish and perfected the use of guerrillawarfare; their harassment caused far more damage than anything the ratherincompetent Russian army could inflict.This strategy has become a more powerful and prevalent tool in modernwarfare for several reasons: First, by exploiting technological advances inweaponry and explosives, a small guerrilla band can cause disproportionatedamage. Second, Napoleonic warfare greatly expanded the size of conventionalarmies, making them much more vulnerable to hit-and-run tactics from light andmobile forces. Finally, guerrilla war has been adopted for political purposes, togreat effect. By infusing local people with the fervor of a cause, a revolutionaryleader can covertly multiply his strength: his civilian supporters can sabotage theenemy's invading force, provide valuable intelligence, and turn the countrysideinto an armed camp.The power of guerrilla warfare is essentially psychological. In conventionalwarfare everything converges on the engagement of two armies in battle. That iswhat all strategy is devised for and what the martial instinct requires as a kind ofrelease from tension. By postponing this natural convergence indefinitely, theguerrilla strategist creates intense frustration. The longer this mental corrosion continues, the more debilitating it gets. Napoleon lost to the Russians becausehis strategic bearings were pushed off course; his mind fell before his army did.Because it is so psychological, guerrilla strategy is infinitely applicable tosocial conflict. In life as in war, our thoughts and emotions naturally converge onmoments of contact and engagement with others. We find people who aredeliberately elusive, who evade contact, extremely disconcerting. Whetherbecause we want to grab them and pin them down or because we are so annoyedwith them that we want to hit them, they pull us toward