too long, hewould simply deduce that certain letters were meaningless. He assumed that thethree texts went in the same order, and that he could match words by theirlocation. Sometimes he guessed right; most often he got nowhere. He madesome key discoveries—that demotic and hieroglyphs were related, the one beinga kind of loose handwritten form of the other; and that demotic used a phoneticalphabet to spell out foreign names, but that it was mostly a system ofpictograms. But he kept hitting dead ends, and he never got close to trying hishand at the hieroglyphs. After a few years, he essentially gave up.In the meantime, there appeared on the scene a young man who seemed to bean unlikely candidate to succeed in this race—Jean-Francois Champollion(1790–1832). He came from a small town near Grenoble. His family wasrelatively poor, and until the age of seven Champollion had no formal education.But he had one advantage over all the others: from his earliest years he had beendrawn to the history of ancient civilizations. He wanted to discover new thingsabout the origins of mankind, and for this purpose he took up the study ofancient languages—Greek, Latin, and Hebrew, as well as several other Semiticlanguages—all of which he mastered with remarkable speed by the age oftwelve.Quickly his attention was drawn to ancient Egypt. In 1802 he heard about theRosetta stone, and he told his older brother that he would be the one to decipherit. The moment he began to study the ancient Egyptians, he experienced a vivididentification with everything that had to do with the civilization. As a child, hehad a powerful visual memory. He could draw with exceptional skill. He tendedto see the writings in books (even books in French) as if they were drawingsinstead of an alphabet. When he first laid eyes on hieroglyphs they seemedalmost familiar to him. Soon his relationship to hieroglyphs bordered on afanatical obsession.To really make progress, he decided he would have to learn the languageknown as Coptic. After Egypt became a Roman colony in 30 B.C., the oldlanguage, demotic, slowly died out, and was replaced by Coptic—a mix ofGreek and Egyptian. After the Arabs conquered Egypt and converted it to Islam, Greek and Egyptian. After the Arabs conquered Egypt and converted it to Islam,making Arabic the official idiom, the remaining Christians in the land retainedCoptic as their language. By Champollion’s time only a few Christians remainedwho still spoke the ancient language, mostly monks and priests. In 1805 justsuch a monk passed through Champollion’s small town, and he quicklybefriended him. The monk taught him the rudiments of Coptic, and when hereturned a few months later, he brought Champollion a grammar book. The boyworked at the language day and night, with a fervor that others saw as madness.He wrote his brother: “I do nothing else. I dream in Coptic…. I am so Coptic,that for fun, I translate into Coptic everything that comes into my head.” Whenhe later went to Paris for schooling he found more monks, and he practiced tothe point where he