a large geographical area, no matter howisolated, gave him unassailable political power. Then he insinuated himself intothe Resistance, taking over a group that had been a communist bastion. Finallyhe created--and, bite by bite, gained complete control of--a committee to governthe free France of the future. Because he proceeded in such a piecemeal fashion,no one really noticed what he was up to. When Churchill and Roosevelt realizedhow far he had insinuated himself into the Resistance, and into the minds of theBritish and American publics as France's destined postwar leader, it was too lateto stop him. His preeminence was a fait accompli.It is not easy to make one's way in this world, to strive with energy to getwhat you want without incurring the envy or antipathy of others who may seeyou as aggressive and ambitious, someone to thwart. The answer is not to loweryour ambitions but rather to disguise them. A piecemeal approach to conquest ofanything is perfect for these political times, the ultimate mask of aggression. Thekey to making it work is to have a clear sense of your objective, the empire youwant to forge, and then to identify the small, outlying areas of the empire thatyou will first gobble up. Each bite must have a logic in an overall strategy butmust be small enough that no one senses your larger intentions. If your bites aretoo big, you will take on more than you are ready for and find yourselfoverwhelmed by problems; if you bite too fast, other people will see what youare up to. Let the passage of time masterfully disguise your intentions and giveyou the appearance of someone of modest ambition. By the time your rivalswake up to what you have consumed, they risk being consumed themselves ifthey stand in your way.Ambition can creep as well as soar.--Edmund Burke (1729-1797)KEYS TO WARFAREAt first glance we humans might seem hopelessly violent and aggressive. Howelse to account for history's endless series of wars, which continue into thepresent? But in fact this is somewhat of an illusion. Standing out dramaticallyfrom daily life, war and conflict compel disproportionate attention. The samecan be said of those aggressive individuals in the public realm who areconstantly grabbing for more.The truth is that most people are conservative by nature. Desperate to keepwhat they have, they dread the unforeseen consequences and situations thatconflict inevitably brings. They hate confrontation and try to avoid it. (That is why so many people resort to passive aggression to get what they want.) Youmust always remember this fact of human nature as you plot your way throughlife. It is also the foundation for any fait accompli strategy.The strategy works as follows: Suppose there is something you want or needfor your security and power. Take it without discussion or warning and you giveyour enemies a choice, either to fight or to accept the loss and leave you alone. Iswhatever you have taken, and your unilateral action in taking it, worth thebother, cost, and danger of waging war? Which costs more, the war (whichmight easily