hold it.) If the defenders could take advantage of this weakness to deliver a counterblow, they could often force the aggressor to retreat. Based on these observations, the art of the counterattack was developed. Its basic tenets were to let the enemy make the first move, actively baiting him into an aggressive attack that would expend his energy and unbalance his lines, then taking advantage of his weakness and disorganization. This art was refined by theorists such as Sun-tzu and practiced to perfection by leaders like Philip of Macedon. The counterattack is, in fact, the origin of modern strategy. The first real example of an indirect approach to war, it represents a major breakthrough in thinking: instead of being brutal and direct, the counterattack is subtle and deceptive, using the enemy's energy and aggression to bring about his downfall. Although it is one of the oldest and most basic strategies in warfare, it remains in many ways the most effective and has proven highly adaptable to modern conditions. It was the strategy of choice of Napoleon Bonaparte, T. E. Lawrence, Erwin Rommel, and Mao Tse-tung. The counterattack principle is infinitely applicable to any competitive environment or form of conflict, since it is based on certain truths of human nature. We are inherently impatient creatures. We find it hard to wait; we want our desires to be satisfied as quickly as possible. This is a tremendous weakness, for it means that in any given situation we often commit ourselves without enough thought. In charging ahead we limit our options and get ourselves into trouble. Patience, on the other hand, particularly in war, pays unlimited dividends: it allows us to sniff out opportunities, to time a counterblow that will catch the enemy by surprise. A person who can lie back and wait for the right moment to take action will almost always have an advantage over those who give in to their natural impatience. THE HEFFALUMP TRAP Piglet and Pooh have fallen into a Hole in the Floor of the Forest. They have Agreed that it is Really a Heffalump Trap, which makes Piglet Nervous. He imagines that a Heffalump has Landed Close By: Heffalump (gloatingly): "Ho- ho !" Piglet ( carelessly): "Tra-la-la, tra-la-la." Heffalump (surprised, and not quite so sure of himself): "Ho-ho!" Piglet (more carelessly still): "Tiddle-um-tum, tiddle-um-tum." Heffalump (beginning to say Ho-ho and turning it awkwardly into a cough): "H'r'm! What's all this?" Piglet (surprised): "Hullo! This is a trap I've made, and I'm waiting for a Heffalump to fall into it." Heffalump (greatly disappointed): "Oh!" (after a long silence): "Are you sure?" Piglet: "Yes." Heffalump: "Oh!" (nervously): "I--I thought it was a trap I'd made to catch Piglets." Piglet (surprised): "Oh, no!" Heffalump: "Oh!" (apologetically): "I--I must have got it wrong, then." Piglet: "I'm afraid so." (politely): "I'm sorry." (he goes on humming.) Heffalump: "Well--well--I--well. I suppose I'd better be getting back?" Piglet (looking up carelessly): "Must you? Well, if you see Christopher Robin anywhere, you might tell