on and on. Metternich turned down every proposal,saying his government would never agree to such things, so Taticheff asked himto suggest alternate ideas. Instead Metternich launched into an abstractdiscussion of revolution, of the importance of the Holy Alliance, and otherirrelevancies. Taticheff left confused and rather annoyed. He had wanted to stakeout a position, but these discussions were informal and shapeless; feeling lost, hehad been unable to steer them in the direction he wanted.A few days later, Metternich called Taticheff in again. He lookeduncomfortable, even pained: the Turks, he said, had just sent him a note claimingthat the Russians were behind the trouble in Greece and asking him to convey tothe czar their determination to fight to the death to hold on to what was theirs. In solemn tones suggesting that he was angry at the Turks' lack of diplomacy,Metternich said he thought it beneath his country's dignity to pass thisdisgraceful message to the czar. He added that the Austrians considered Russiatheir staunchest ally and would support Russia's conditions for resolving thecrisis. Finally, if the Turks refused to concede, Austria would break off relationswith them.Taticheff was quite moved by this sudden emotional display of solidarity.Perhaps the Russians had misread the prince--perhaps he was really on theirside. Fearing that d'Istria would misunderstand, Taticheff reported this meetingto the czar alone. A few days later, Alexander responded that from now on,Taticheff was to report only to him; d'Istria was to be excluded from thenegotiations.The pace of the meetings with Metternich picked up. Somehow the two mendiscussed only diplomatic solutions to the crisis; Russia's right to intervene inGreece militarily was no longer mentioned. Finally, Metternich invited the czarto attend a conference on the question in Verona, Italy, a few months later. HereRussia would lead the debate on how best to settle the matter; it would be at thecenter of attention, with the czar rightly celebrated as Europe's savior in thecrusade against revolution. The czar happily agreed to attend.Back in St. Petersburg, d'Istria fumed and ranted to anyone who wouldlisten, but shortly after Taticheff got home, the Russian foreign minister waskicked out of office for good. And at the later conference in Verona, just as hehad predicted, the Greek crisis was resolved in precisely the way that best servedAustria's interests. The czar was the star of the show, but apparently he did notcare or notice that he had signed a document essentially precluding Russia fromintervening unilaterally in the Balkans, thereby conceding a right insisted uponby every Russian leader since Peter the Great. Metternich had won the war withd'Istria more completely than the former minister had ever imagined possible.InterpretationMetternich's goal was always a settlement that would best serve Austria's long-term interests. Those interests, he decided, involved not just preventing Russianintervention in Greece but maneuvering the czar into permanently relinquishingthe right to send troops into the Balkans, an enduring source of instability inEurope. So Metternich looked at the relative forces on both sides. What leveragedid he have over the Russians? Very little; in fact, he had the weaker