of danger, if you donot know enough to be wary when enemies arrive, this is called asparrow nesting on a tent, a fish swimming in a cauldron--they won't lastthe day.--Chuko Liang (A.D. 181-234 )REVERSALAlways keep the search for and use of enemies under control. It is clarity youwant, not paranoia. It is the downfall of many tyrants to see an enemy ineveryone. They lose their grip on reality and become hopelessly embroiled in theemotions their paranoia churns up. By keeping an eye on possible enemies, youare simply being prudent and cautious. Keep your suspicions to yourself, so thatif you're wrong, no one will know. Also, beware of polarizing people socompletely that you cannot back off. Margaret Thatcher, usually brilliant at the polarizing game, eventually lost control of it: she created too many enemies andkept repeating the same tactic, even in situations that called for retreat. FranklinDelano Roosevelt was a master polarizer, always looking to draw a line betweenhimself and his enemies. Once he had made that line clear enough, though, hebacked off, which made him look like a conciliator, a man of peace whooccasionally went to war. Even if that impression was false, it was the height ofwisdom to create it. DO NOT FIGHT THE LAST WARTHE GUERRILLA-WAR-OF-THE-MIND STRATEGYWhat most often weighs you down and brings you misery is the past, in the formof unnecessary attachments, repetitions of tired formulas, and the memory of oldvictories and defeats. You must consciously wage war against the past and forceyourself to react to the present moment. Be ruthless on yourself; do not repeatthe same tired methods. Sometimes you must force yourself to strike out in newdirections, even if they involve risk. What you may lose in comfort and security,you will gain in surprise, making it harder for your enemies to tell what you willdo. Wage guerrilla war on your mind, allowing no static lines of defense, noexposed citadels--make everything fluid and mobile.Theory cannot equip the mind with formulas for solving problems, nor can itmark the narrow path on which the sole solution is supposed to lie byplanting a hedge of principles on either side. But it can give the mind insightinto the great mass of phenomena and of their relationships, then leave it freeto rise into the higher realms of action. There the mind can use its innatetalents to capacity, combining them all so as to seize on what is right and trueas though this were a single idea formed by their concentrated pressure--asthough it were a response to the immediate challenge rather than a product ofthought.ON WAR, CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ, 1780-1831THE LAST WARNo one has risen to power faster than Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821). In 1793he went from captain in the French revolutionary army to brigadier general. In1796 he became the leader of the French force in Italy fighting the Austrians,whom he crushed that year and again three years later. He became first consul ofFrance in 1801, emperor in 1804. In 1805 he humiliated the Austrian andRussian armies at the Battle of Austerlitz.For