homeland.THE ANATOMY OF THE ZULU ARMY, IAN KNIGHT, 1995Many Englishmen in Natal were thrilled at the prospect of war and at thepotential benefits of taking over Zululand, but no one was as excited as forty-eight-year-old Colonel Anthony William Durnford. For years Durnford hadbounced from one lonely British Empire outpost to another, finally ending up inNatal. In all his years of military service, Durnford had not once seen action. Heyearned to prove his valor and worth as a soldier, but he was approaching the agewhen such youthful dreams could no longer be fulfilled. Now, suddenly, theimpending war was sending the opportunity his way.Eager to impress, Durnford volunteered to organize an elite force of nativesoldiers from Natal to fight alongside the British. His offer was accepted, but asthe British invaded Zululand in early January 1879, he found himself cut out ofthe main action. Lord Chelmsford did not trust him, thinking his hunger forglory made him impetuous; also, for someone with no battle experience, he wasold. So Durnford and his company were stationed at Rorke's Drift, in westernZululand, to help monitor the border areas with Natal. Dutifully but bitterly,Durnford followed his orders.In the first days after the invasion, the British failed to locate the main Zuluarmy, only trickles of men here and there. They were growing frustrated. OnJanuary 21, Chelmsford took half of the central column, which was encamped atthe foot of a mountain called Isandlwana, and led it east in search of the Zulus.Once he had found the enemy, he would bring the rest of his army forward--butthe elusive Zulus might attack the camp while he was away, and the men atRorke's Drift were the closest reserves. Needing to reinforce Isandlwana, he sentword to Durnford to bring his company there. As colonel, Durnford would nowbe the highest-ranking officer at the camp, but Chelmsford could not worryabout Durnford's leadership qualities--the impending battle was the only thing onhis mind.Early on the morning of January 22, Durnford received the news he had beenwaiting for all his life. Barely able to contain his excitement, he lead his fourhundred men east to Isandlwana, arriving at the camp at around 10:00 A.M.Surveying the land, he understood why Chelmsford had put his main camp here:to the east and south were miles of rolling grassland--Zulus approaching fromthat direction would be seen well in advance. To the north was Isandlwana, andbeyond it the plains of Nqutu. This side was a little less secure, but scouts hadbeen placed at key points in the plains and at the mountain passes; attack from that direction would almost certainly be detected in time.Shortly after his arrival, Durnford received a report that a seemingly largeZulu force had been spotted on the plains of Nqutu heading east, perhaps toattack Chelmsford's half of the central column from the rear. Chelmsford had leftexplicit orders to keep the 1,800 men at Isandlwana together. In case of attack,they had enough firepower to defeat the entire Zulu army--as long as they stayedconcentrated and kept their lines in order. But to Durnford it