for a muchdifferent purpose--not to maintain social order but to extract an advantage in acompetitive situation, such as war, politics or business. In their hands moralitybecomes a weapon they wield to attract attention to their cause while distractingattention from the nastier, less noble actions inevitable in any power struggle.They tend to play on the ambivalence we all have about conflict and power,exploiting our feelings of guilt for their purposes. For instance, they mayposition themselves as victims of injustice, so that opposing them seems wickedor insensitive. Or they may make such a show of moral superiority that we feelashamed to disagree with them. They are masters at occupying the high groundand translating it into some kind of power or advantage.How should a regime pursue a counterguerrilla campaign? [Colonel John]Boyd laid out an array of tools: Undermine the guerrillas' cause and destroytheir cohesion by demonstrating integrity and competence of government torepresent and serve the needs of the people rather than exploit and impoverish them for the benefit of a greedy elite. (If you cannot realize such apolitical program, Boyd noted, you might consider changing sides now toavoid the rush later!) Take political initiative to root out and visibly punishcorruption. Select new leaders with recognized competence as well aspopular appeal. Ensure that they deliver justice, eliminate major grievances,and connect the government with its grass roots.THE MIND OF WAR: JOHN BOYD AND AMERICAN SECURITY, GRANTT. HAMMOND, 2001Let us call these strategists "moral warriors." There are generally two types:unconscious and conscious. Unconscious moral warriors tend to be motivated byfeelings of weakness. They may not be so good at the straightforward game ofpower, so they function by making other people feel guilty and morally inferior--an unconscious, reflexive way of leveling the playing field. Despite theirapparent fragility, they are dangerous on an individual level, because they seemso sincere and can have great power over people's emotions. Conscious moralwarriors are those who use the strategy knowingly. They are most dangerous ona public level, where they can take the high ground by manipulating the media.Luther was a conscious moral warrior, but, being also a genuine believer in themorality he preached, he used the strategy only to help him in his struggle withthe pope; slipperier moral warriors tend to use it indiscriminately, adapting it towhatever cause they decide to take on.It is a world not of angels but of angles, where men speak of moral principlesbut act on power principles; a world where we are always moral and ourenemies always immoral.RULES FOR RADICALS, SAUL D. ALINSKY, 1909-1972The way to combat moral warriors in general is indicated by certainstrategies that have evolved in modern warfare itself. The French officer andwriter Andre Beaufre has analyzed the use of morality as a military strategy inthe contexts of the French-Algerian wars of the 1950s and of the Vietnam warsfought by first France and then the United States. Both the Algerians and theNorth Vietnamese worked hard to frame each of their respective conflicts as awar of liberation fought by a nation struggling for its freedom