unconventional, are based on timeless psychology, and greatmilitary failures have much to teach us about human stupidity and the limits offorce in any arena. The strategic ideal in war--being supremely rational andemotionally balanced, striving to win with minimum bloodshed and loss ofresources--has infinite application and relevance to our daily battles.Inculcated with the values of our times, many will argue that organized waris inherently barbaric--a relic of man's violent past and something to beovercome for good. To promote the arts of warfare in a social setting, they willsay, is to stand in the way of progress and to encourage conflict and dissension.Isn't there enough of that in the world? This argument is very seductive, but notat all reasonable. There will always be those in society and in the world at largewho are more aggressive than we are, who find ways to get what they want, byhook or by crook. We must be vigilant and must know how to defend ourselvesagainst such types. Civilized values are not furthered if we are forced tosurrender to those who are crafty and strong. In fact, being pacifists in the faceof such wolves is the source of endless tragedy.The self is the friend of a man who masters himself through the self, but for aman without self-mastery, the self is like an enemy at war.THE BHAGAVAD GITA, INDIA, CIRCA A.D. FIRST CENTURYMahatma Gandhi, who elevated nonviolence into a great weapon for socialchange, had one simple goal later on in his life: to rid India of the Britishoverlords who had crippled it for so many centuries. The British were cleverrulers. Gandhi understood that if nonviolence were to work, it would have to beextremely strategic, demanding much thought and planning. He went so far as tocall nonviolence a new way of waging war. To promote any value, even peace and pacifism, you must be willing to fight for it and to aim at results--not simplythe good, warm feeling that expressing such ideas might bring you. The momentyou aim for results, you are in the realm of strategy. War and strategy have aninexorable logic: if you want or desire anything, you must be ready and able tofight for it.Others will argue that war and strategy are primarily matters that concernmen, particularly those who are aggressive or among the power elite. The studyof war and strategy, they will say, is a masculine, elitist, and repressive pursuit, away for power to perpetuate itself. Such an argument is dangerous nonsense. Inthe beginning, strategy indeed belonged to a select few--a general, his staff, theking, a handful of courtiers. Soldiers were not taught strategy, for that would nothave helped them on the battlefield. Besides, it was unwise to arm one's soldierswith the kind of practical knowledge that could help them to organize a mutinyor rebellion. The era of colonialism took this principle further: the indigenouspeoples of Europe's colonies were conscripted into the Western armies and didmuch of the police work, but even those who rose to the upper echelons wererigorously kept ignorant of knowledge