ever written.These stories are so common as to indicate something essential about thebrain and how it reaches certain peaks of creativity. We can explain this patternin the following way: If we remained as excited as we were in the beginning ofour project, maintaining that intuitive feel that sparked it all, we would never beable to take the necessary distance to look at our work objectively and improveupon it. Losing that initial verve causes us to work and rework the idea. It forcesus to not settle too early on an easy solution. The mounting frustration andtightness that comes from single-minded devotion to one problem or idea willnaturally lead to a breaking point. We realize we are getting nowhere. Suchmoments are signals from the brain to let go, for however long a periodnecessary, and most creative people consciously or unconsciously accept this.When we let go, we are not aware that below the surface of consciousnessthe ideas and the associations we had built up continue to bubble and incubate.With the feeling of tightness gone, the brain can momentarily return to thatinitial feeling of excitement and aliveness, which by now has been greatlyenhanced by all of our hard work. The brain can now find the proper synthesis tothe work, the one that was eluding us because we had become too tight in ourapproach. Perhaps the idea for the watery sounds in Das Rheingold had stirredbefore in different forms in Wagner’s brain as he strained to find the rightopening. Only by giving up the chase and falling asleep in the woods was heable to access his unconscious mind, and allow an idea that had been brewingthere to surface by way of a dream.The key is to be aware of this process and to encourage yourself to go as faras you can with your doubts, your reworkings, and your strained efforts, as you can with your doubts, your reworkings, and your strained efforts,knowing the value and purpose of the frustration and creative blocks you arefacing. Think of yourself as your own Zen Master. Such Masters would oftenbeat their pupils and deliberately lead them to points of maximum doubt andinner tension, knowing such moments often precede enlightenment.Among the thousands of stories of great insights and discoveries, perhaps thestrangest one of all is that of Evariste Galois, a promising student of mathematicsin France who in his teens revealed exceptional brilliance in algebra. In 1831, atthe age of twenty, he became embroiled in a quarrel over a woman, whichresulted in his being challenged to a duel. The night before the duel, certain hewas going to die, Galois sat down and tried to summarize all of the ideas onalgebraic equations that had been troubling him for several years. Suddenly, theideas flowed, and even new ones came to him. He wrote all night at a feverishpitch. The next day, as he had foreseen, he died in the duel, but in the ensuingyears his notes were read and published, leading to a complete revolution inhigher algebra. Some of his scribbled notes indicated