no real precedent or model to base the flying machine on. It was agenuine puzzle, and it required the highest degree of ingenuity to solve it. In thehistory of its invention, we can observe two radically different approaches. Onthe one side was a large group of engineers and designers with backgrounds inthe sciences who saw the problem in abstract terms: how to get the planelaunched and propelled, how to overcome wind resistance, and so on. Theyfocused largely on the technology and worked to create the most efficient parts—the most powerful engines, the best-designed wings, all of this based onelaborate lab research. Money was no object. This process depended onspecialization—individuals who focused on different parts and who specializedin different materials. In many cases, the designer would not end up being thepilot; someone else would do the test flights.On the other side were two men from a completely different background. Forthem, the pleasure and excitement of design was in doing everything themselves.They designed the machine, built it, and flew it. Their model depended not onsuperior technology, but on the highest number of test runs, creating an optimallearning curve. This revealed flaws to be worked on and gave them a feel for theproduct that could never be had in the abstract. The emphasis was not on theparts, but on the overall flying experience; not on power, but on control. Sincemoney was a factor, supreme importance was placed on ingenuity in getting themost out of the least. The differences between the two approaches can be seen inthe analogies they chose to base their designs on. The abstract thinkers opted forthe ship analogy, working on the similarity of navigating an alien medium (wateror air), which made them place importance on stability. The Wright brotherschose the bicycle, which emphasized the rider or pilot, the user-friendliness ofthe machine, and its overall functionality. Focusing on the pilot instead of themedium ended up being the right answer to the puzzle, because it led to thedesign of something that could be maneuvered. From that starting point, a morecomplex airplane could be easily evolved.Understand: mechanical intelligence is not a degraded form of thinking, ascompared to abstract reasoning. It is in fact the source of many of our reasoning compared to abstract reasoning. It is in fact the source of many of our reasoningskills and creative powers. Our brain developed to its present size because of thecomplex operations of our hands. In working with resistant materials to createtools, our ancestors developed a pattern of thinking that transcends manual laboritself. The principles behind mechanical intelligence can be summarized asfollows: whatever you are creating or designing, you must test and use ityourself. Separating out the work will make you lose touch with its functionality.Through intense labor on your part, you gain a feel for what you are creating. Indoing this work, you see and feel the flaws in the design. You do not look at theparts separately but at how they interact, experiencing what you produce as awhole. What you are trying to create