the moral arsenal: people naturally hate hypocrites. This will work,however, only if the hypocrisy runs deep; it has to show up in their values. Fewwill care about some innocuous self-contradictory comment made or vote takenlong ago, but enemies who trumpet certain values as inherent to their side yetwho do not always adhere to those values in reality make juicy targets. TheAlgerian and North Vietnamese propaganda campaigns were so destructive inpart because of the discrepancy they were able to show between the values offreedom and liberty espoused by France and the United States and the actionsthose countries were taking to squash national independence movements. Bothnations seemed hypocritical.If a fight with your enemies is inevitable, always work to make them start it.In 1861, President Abraham Lincoln maneuvered carefully to make the Southshoot first at Fort Sumter, initiating the Civil War. That put Lincoln on the moralhigh ground and won over many ambivalent Northerners to his side. Similarly,even if you are fighting a war of aggression, your goal to take from your enemy,find a way to present yourself not as a conqueror but as a liberator. You arefighting not for land or money but to free people suffering under an oppressiveregime.In general, in a conflict that is potentially nasty, in which you are certain theenemy will resort to almost anything, it is best that you go on the offensive withyour moral campaign and not wait for their attacks. Poking holes in the otherside's reputation is easier than defending your own. The more you stay on theoffensive, the more you can distract the public from your own deficiencies andfaults--and faults are inevitable in war. If you are physically and militarilyweaker than your enemy, all the more reason to mount an exterior maneuver.Move the battle to the moral terrain, where you can hamstring and beat astronger foe.The best defense against moral warriors is to give them no target. Live up toyour good name; practice what you preach, at least in public; ally yourself withthe most just causes of the day. Make your opponents work so hard to undermineyour reputation that they seem desperate, and their attacks blow up in their faces.If you have to do something nasty and not in harmony with your stated positionor public image, use a cat's-paw--some agent to act for you and hide your role inthe action. If that is not possible, think ahead and plan a moral self-defense. Atall costs avoid actions that carry the taint of hypocrisy.A stain on your moral reputation can spread like an infection. As youscramble to repair the damage, you often inadvertently publicize the doubts it has opened up, which simply makes things worse. So be prudent: the bestdefense against a moral attack is to have inoculated yourself against itbeforehand, by recognizing where you may be vulnerable and taking preventivemeasures. When Julius Caesar crossed the Rubicon and initiated the Civil Waragainst Pompey, he was highly vulnerable to the charge of trying to usurp theauthority of the Roman Senate in order to become a dictator. He