You become one with the tool or instrument or thing you arestudying. Your skill is not something that can be put into words; it is embeddedin your body and nervous system—it becomes tacit knowledge. Learning anykind of skill deeply prepares you for mastery. The sensation of flow and of beinga part of the instrument is a precursor to the great pleasures that mastery canbring.In essence, when you practice and develop any skill you transform yourselfin the process. You reveal to yourself new capabilities that were previouslylatent, that are exposed as you progress. You develop emotionally. Your sense ofpleasure becomes redefined. What offers immediate pleasure comes to seem likea distraction, an empty entertainment to help pass the time. Real pleasure comesfrom overcoming challenges, feeling confidence in your abilities, gainingfluency in skills, and experiencing the power this brings. You develop patience.Boredom no longer signals the need for distraction, but rather the need for newchallenges to conquer.Although it might seem that the time necessary to master the requisite skillsand attain a level of expertise would depend on the field and your own talentlevel, those who have researched the subject repeatedly come up with thenumber of 10,000 hours. This seems to be the amount of quality practice timethat is needed for someone to reach a high level of skill and it applies tocomposers, chess players, writers, and athletes, among others. This number hasan almost magical or mystical resonance to it. It means that so much practicetime—no matter the person or the field—leads to a qualitative change in thehuman brain. The mind has learned to organize and structure large amounts ofinformation. With all of this tacit knowledge, it can now become creative andplayful with it. Although the number of hours might seem high, it generally addsup to seven to ten years of sustained, solid practice—roughly the period of atraditional apprenticeship. In other words, concentrated practice over timecannot fail but produce results.Step Three: Experimentation—The Active ModeThis is the shortest part of the process, but a critical component nonetheless. Asyou gain in skill and confidence, you must make the move to a more active modeof experimentation. This could mean taking on more responsibility, initiating aproject of some sort, doing work that exposes you to the criticisms of peers or even the public. The point of this is to gauge your progress and whether there arestill gaps in your knowledge. You are observing yourself in action and seeinghow you respond to the judgments of others. Can you take criticism and use itconstructively?With Charles Darwin, as the voyage progressed and he began to entertain thenotions that would lead to his theory of evolution, he decided to expose his ideasto others. First, on the Beagle, he discussed them with the captain and patientlyabsorbed his vehement criticisms of the idea. This, Darwin told himself, wouldbe more or less the reaction of the public, and he would have to prepare himselffor that. He also began to write letters to various scientists and scientificsocieties back in England. The responses he received indicated he