anattraction that is not infected by the desires of other people. They are notsomething embedded in you by your parents, which come with a moresuperficial connection, something more verbal and conscious. Coming insteadfrom somewhere deeper, they can only be your own, reflections of your uniquechemistry.As you become more sophisticated, you often lose touch with these signalsfrom your primal core. They can be buried beneath all of the other subjects you from your primal core. They can be buried beneath all of the other subjects youhave studied. Your power and future can depend on reconnecting with this coreand returning to your origins. You must dig for signs of such inclinations in yourearliest years. Look for its traces in visceral reactions to something simple; adesire to repeat an activity that you never tired of; a subject that stimulated anunusual degree of curiosity; feelings of power attached to particular actions. It isalready there within you. You have nothing to create; you merely need to digand refind what has been buried inside of you all along. If you reconnect withthis core at any age, some element of that primitive attraction will spark back tolife, indicating a path that can ultimately become your Life’s Task.2. Occupy the perfect niche—The Darwinian strategyA. As a child growing up in Madras, India, in the late 1950s, V. S.Ramachandran knew he was different. He was not interested in sports or theother usual pursuits of boys his age; he loved to read about science. In hisloneliness he would often wander along the beach, and soon he becamefascinated by the incredible variety of seashells that washed up on shore. Hebegan to collect them and study the subject in detail. It gave him a feeling ofpower—here was a field he had all to himself; nobody in school could everknow as much as he did about shells. Soon he was drawn to the strangestvarieties of seashells, such as the Xenophora, an organism that collects discardedshells and uses them for camouflage. In a way, he was like the Xenophora—ananomaly. In nature, these anomalies often serve a larger evolutionary purpose—they can lead to the occupation of new ecological niches, offering a greaterchance of survival. Could Ramachandran say the same about his ownstrangeness?Over the years, he transferred this boyhood interest into other subjects—human anatomical abnormalities, peculiar phenomena in chemistry, and so on.His father, fearing that the young man would end up in some esoteric field ofresearch, convinced him to enroll in medical school. There he would be exposedto all sides of science and he would come out of it with a practical skill.Ramachandran complied.Although the studies in medical school interested him, after a while he grewrestless. He disliked all of the rote learning. He wanted to experiment anddiscover, not memorize. He began to read all kinds of science journals and booksthat were not on the reading list. One such book was Eye and Brain, by thevisual neuroscientist Richard Gregory. What particularly intrigued him wereexperiments on optical illusions and blind spots—anomalies in the visual systemthat could explain