or books.These cathedrals represented the accumulated skills of numerous craftsmen andengineers.What this means is simple: language, oral and written, is a relatively recent What this means is simple: language, oral and written, is a relatively recentinvention. Well before that time, our ancestors had to learn various skills—toolmaking, hunting, and so forth. The natural model for learning, largely basedon the power of mirror neurons, came from watching and imitating others, thenrepeating the action over and over. Our brains are highly suited for this form oflearning.In an activity such as riding a bicycle, we all know that it is easier to watchsomeone and follow their lead than to listen to or read instructions. The more wedo it, the easier it becomes. Even with skills that are primarily mental, such ascomputer programming or speaking a foreign language, it remains the case thatwe learn best through practice and repetition—the natural learning process. Welearn a foreign language by actually speaking it as much as possible, not byreading books and absorbing theories. The more we speak and practice, the morefluent we become.Once you take this far enough, you enter a cycle of accelerated returns inwhich the practice becomes easier and more interesting, leading to the ability topractice for longer hours, which increases your skill level, which in turn makespractice even more interesting. Reaching this cycle is the goal you must set foryourself, and to get there you must understand some basic principles about skillsthemselves.First, it is essential that you begin with one skill that you can master, and thatserves as a foundation for acquiring others. You must avoid at all cost the ideathat you can manage learning several skills at a time. You need to develop yourpowers of concentration, and understand that trying to multitask will be thedeath of the process.Second, the initial stages of learning a skill invariably involve tedium. Yetrather than avoiding this inevitable tedium, you must accept and embrace it. Thepain and boredom we experience in the initial stage of learning a skill toughensour minds, much like physical exercise. Too many people believe thateverything must be pleasurable in life, which makes them constantly search fordistractions and short-circuits the learning process. The pain is a kind ofchallenge your mind presents—will you learn how to focus and move past theboredom, or like a child will you succumb to the need for immediate pleasureand distraction? Much as with physical exercise, you can even get a kind ofperverse pleasure out of this pain, knowing the benefits it will bring you. In anyevent, you must meet any boredom head-on and not try to avoid or repress it.Throughout your life you will encounter tedious situations, and you mustcultivate the ability to handle them with discipline. In practicing a skill in the initial stages, something happens neurologically tothe brain that is important for you to understand. When you start something new,a large number of neurons in the frontal cortex (the higher, more consciouscommand area of the brain) are recruited and become active, helping you in thelearning process. The brain has