living creature has a center of gravity. Even the most decentralized grouphas to communicate and depends on a network that is vulnerable to attack. Thereis no reversal to this principle.Image: The Wall. Your opponents stand behind a wall, which protectsthem from strangers and intruders. Do not hit your head against the wallor lay siege to it; find the pillars and supports that make it stand and giveit strength. Dig under the wall, sapping its foundations until it collapseson its own. DEFEAT THEM IN DETAILTHE DIVIDE-AND-CONQUER STRATEGYWhen you look at your enemies, do not be intimidated by their appearance.Instead look at the parts that make up the whole. By separating the parts, sowingdissension and division from within, you can weaken and bring down even themost formidable foe. In setting up your attack, work on their minds to createinternal conflict. Look for the joints and links, the things that connect the peoplein a group or connect one group to another. Division is weakness, and the jointsare the weakest part of any structure. When you are facing troubles or enemies,turn a large problem into small, eminently defeatable parts.There were, however, many occasions when the French were faced not by onebut by two or a whole series of enemy armies within supporting distance ofone another. Faced with such a difficult situation, Napoleon often adopted asecond system of maneuver--the "strategy of the central position." Very oftenunder these circumstances the French found themselves operating at anumerical disadvantage against the combined strength of their opponents, butcould procure superior numbers against any one part of their adversaries'forces. It was this second factor that the system was designed to exploit to thefull. "The art of generalship consists in, when actually inferior in numbers tothe enemy (overall), being superior to him on the battlefield." In brief,Napoleon set himself the task of isolating one part of the enemy armament,concentrating a stronger force to ensure its defeat and if possible itsdestruction, and then turning with his full strength to attack the second enemyarmy; that is to say, instead of a single decisive blow, he planned a series ofsmaller blows against scattered adversaries and set out to destroy them indetail. How could this be done? Once again, the sequence of the Napoleonicattack reveals the formula. First of all the Emperor would accumulate asmuch information about the forces facing him from captured newspapers,deserters and most especially from the indications brought in by his probingcavalry patrols. From the data thus provided, he would carefully plot theknown dispositions of his foes on the map, and then select the place wheretheir respective army boundaries converged. This was the "hinge" or "joint"of the enemy's strategic dispositions, and as such was vulnerable to attack. This point would be selected by Napoleon for his initial blitzkrieg attack,carried out as often as not in full strength. Shielded by the cavalry screen, theFrench army would perform a crash concentration and fall like a thunderbolton the handful of troops defending this central point. Invariably this initialonslaught would be successful. Immediately Napoleon had massed