and the bad boy of thedepartment. He was bold, taking on the higher-ups in the department and arguingagainst some of the most entrenched ideas in the field of artificial intelligence.He had developed a completely novel approach to robotics. It excited her that aprofessor could get away with such an unconventional attitude. She began tospend as much time around him as possible, soaking up his style of thinking, andturning him into her de facto mentor. He was not a teacher who told you what todo; he let you find your own way, including your own mistakes, but would lendyou support when you needed it. This style suited her need for independence. Itwas only later that she realized how much his ideas had gotten under her skin.Unconsciously following his lead, she would eventually create her own approachto robotics and pioneer a totally new field, known as neurobotics. The choice of the right mentor is more important than you might imagine.Because so much of her future influence upon you can be deeper than you areconsciously aware of, the wrong choice can have a net negative effect upon yourjourney to mastery. You could end up absorbing conventions and styles thatdon’t fit you and that will confuse you later on. If she is too domineering, youcould end up becoming a lifelong imitation of the mentor, instead of a Master inyour own right. People often err in this process when they choose someone whoseems the most knowledgeable, has a charming personality, or has the moststature in the field—all superficial reasons. Do not simply choose the firstpossible mentor who crosses your path. Be prepared to put as much thought intoit as possible.In selecting a mentor, you will want to keep in mind your inclinations andLife’s Task, the future position you envision for yourself. The mentor youchoose should be strategically aligned with this. If your path is in a morerevolutionary direction, you will want a mentor who is open, progressive, andnot domineering. If your ideal aligns more with a style that is somewhatidiosyncratic, you will want a mentor who will make you feel comfortable withthis and help you transform your peculiarities into mastery, instead of trying tosquelch them. If, like Jung, you are somewhat confused and ambivalent aboutyour direction, it can be useful to choose someone who can help you gain someclarity about what you want, someone important in the field who might not fitperfectly with your tastes. Sometimes part of what a mentor shows us issomething we will want to avoid or actively rebel against. In this latter case, youmight initially want to maintain a little more emotional distance than normallyrecommended, particularly if she is the domineering type. Over time you will seewhat to absorb and what to reject. what to absorb and what to reject.Remember: the Mentor Dynamic replays something of the parental or father-figure dynamic. It is a cliché that you do not get to choose the family you areborn into, but you are happily free to choose your mentors. In this case, the rightchoice