disposition of force (hsing) is like water. Water'sconfiguration (hsing) avoids heights and races downward.... Water configures(hsing) its flow in accord with the terrain; the army controls its victory inaccord with the enemy. Thus the army does not maintain any constantstrategic configuration of power (shih), water has no constant shape (hsing).One who is able to change and transform in accord with the enemy and wrestvictory is termed spiritual. THE ART OF WAR, SUN-TZU, FOURTH CENTURY B.C.THE REED AND THE OLIVEThe reed and the olive tree were arguing over their steadfastness, strengthand ease. The olive taunted the reed for his powerlessness and pliancy in theface of all the winds. The reed kept quiet and didn't say a word. Then, notlong after this, the wind blew violently. The reed, shaken and bent, escapedeasily from it, but the olive tree, resisting the wind, was snapped by its force.The story shows that people who yield to circumstances and to superiorpower have the advantage over their stronger rivals. FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C.2. As the Republicans prepared their convention to pick a presidential candidatein 1936, they had reason to hope. The sitting president, the Democrat FranklinD. Roosevelt, was certainly popular, but America was still in the Depression,unemployment was high, the budget deficit was growing, and many ofRoosevelt's New Deal programs were mired in inefficiency. Most promising ofall, many Americans had become disenchanted with Roosevelt as a person--infact, they had even come to hate him, thinking him dictatorial, untrustworthy, asocialist at heart, perhaps even un-American.Roosevelt was vulnerable, and the Republicans were desperate to win theelection. They decided to tone down their rhetoric and appeal to traditional American values. Claiming to support the spirit of the New Deal but not the manbehind it, they pledged to deliver the needed reforms more efficiently and fairlythan Roosevelt had. Stressing party unity, they nominated Alf M. Landon, thegovernor of Kansas, as their presidential candidate. Landon was the perfectmoderate. His speeches tended to be a little dull, but he seemed so solid, somiddle class, a comfortable choice, and this was no time to be promoting aradical. He had supported much of the New Deal, but that was fine--the NewDeal was popular. The Republicans nominated Landon because they thought hehad the best chance to defeat Roosevelt, and that was all that mattered to them.During the nominating ceremony, the Republicans staged a western pageantwith cowboys, cowgirls, and covered wagons. In his acceptance speech, Landondid not talk about specific plans or policy but about himself and his Americanvalues. Where Roosevelt was associated with unpleasant dramas, he would bringstability. It was a feel-good convention.The Republicans waited for Roosevelt to make his move. As expected, heplayed the part of the man above the fray, keeping his public appearances to aminimum and projecting a presidential image. He talked in vague generalitiesand struck an optimistic note. After the Democratic convention, he departed for along vacation, leaving the field open to the Republicans, who were only toohappy to fill the void: they sent Landon out on the campaign trail, where