made space for himself in which to developthe march without fear of repression. He used that space to frame the march inan Indian context that would give it wide appeal. The religious symbolism hefound for it had another function as well: it heightened the paralysis of theBritish, who were quite religious themselves in their own way and could notcountenance repressing a spiritual event. Finally, like any good showman,Gandhi made the march dramatically visual and used the press to give itmaximum exposure.Once the march gained momentum, it was too late to stop it. Gandhi hadsparked a fire, and the masses were now deeply engaged in the struggle.Whatever Irwin did at this point would make the situation worse. Not only didthe Salt March become the model for future protests, but it was clearly theturning point in India's struggle for independence.Many people today are as ambivalent as the English were about havingpower and authority. They need power to survive, yet at the same time they havean equally great need to believe in their own goodness. In this context to fightpeople with any kind of violence makes you look aggressive and ugly. And ifthey are stronger than you are, in effect you are playing into their hands,justifying a heavy-handed response from them. Instead it is the height ofstrategic wisdom to prey upon people's latent guilt and liberal ambivalence bymaking yourself look benign, gentle, even passive. That will disarm them andget past their defenses. If you take action to challenge and resist them, you mustdo it morally, righteously, peacefully. If they cannot help themselves and respondwith force, they will look and feel bad; if they hesitate, you have the upper handand an opening to determine the whole dynamic of the war. It is almostimpossible to fight people who throw up their hands and do not resist in the usual aggressive way. It is completely confusing and disabling. Operating in thisway, you inflict guilt as if it were a kind of weapon. In a political world, yourpassive, moralistic resistance will paralyze the enemy.I was a believer in the politics of petitions, deputations and friendlynegotiations. But all these have gone to dogs. I know that these are not theways to bring this Government round. Sedition has become my religion. Oursis a nonviolent war.--Mahatma Gandhi (1869-1947)PASSIVE POWEREarly in 1820 a revolution broke out in Spain, followed a few months later byone in Naples, which at that time was a city-state incorporated within theAustrian Empire. Forced to accept liberal constitutions modeled on that ofrevolutionary France some thirty years earlier, the kings of both countries hadreason to fear that they also faced the same fate as the French king of that period,Louis XVI, beheaded in 1793. Meanwhile the leaders of Europe's great powers--England, Austria, and Prussia--quaked at the thought of unrest and radicalismspreading across their borders, which had only recently been stabilized by thedefeat of Napoleon. They all wanted to protect themselves and halt the tide ofrevolution.The devotion of his soldiers to him, affirmed in many stories, must be a