his presence. To Faraday this meant thatthe printed words of the Bible had a kind of magical power. He imagined thateach of the books in this shop opened up different worlds of knowledge, a formof magic in its own right.The owner of the shop, George Riebau, was instantly charmed by the young The owner of the shop, George Riebau, was instantly charmed by the youngman’s reverence for his books. He had never met someone quite so intense atsuch a young age. He encouraged him to return, and soon Faraday began tofrequent the shop. To help Faraday’s family, Riebau gave him a job as a deliveryboy. Impressed with his work ethic, he invited him to join the shop itself as anapprentice bookbinder. Faraday happily accepted, and in 1805 he began hisseven-year apprenticeship.In the initial months of the job, surrounded by all these books, the youngman could hardly believe his good fortune—new books were rare commoditiesin those days, luxury items for the well-to-do. Not even a public librarycontained what could be found in Riebau’s shop. The owner encouraged him toread whatever he liked in his off-hours, and Faraday obliged by devouringalmost every single book that passed through his hands. One evening he read anencyclopedia passage on the most recent discoveries in electricity, and hesuddenly felt as if he had found his calling in life. Here was a phenomenon thatwas invisible to the eye, but that could be revealed and measured throughexperiments. This process of uncovering nature’s secrets through experimententhralled him. Science, it seemed to him, was a great quest to unravel themysteries of Creation itself. Somehow, he would transform himself into ascientist.This was not a realistic goal on his part and he knew it. In England at thetime, access to laboratories and to science as a career was only open to thosewith a university education, which meant those from the upper classes. Howcould a bookbinder’s apprentice even dream of overcoming such odds? Even ifhe had the energy and desire to attempt it, he had no teachers, no guidance, nostructure or method to his studies. Then in 1809 a book came into the shop thatfinally gave him some hope. It was called Improvement of the Mind—a self-helpguide written by Reverend Isaac Watts, first published in 1741. The bookrevealed a system of learning and improving your lot in life, no matter yoursocial class. It prescribed courses of action that anyone could follow, and itpromised results. Faraday read it over and over, carrying it with him wherever hewent.He followed the book’s advice to the letter. For Watts, learning had to be anactive process. He recommended not just reading about scientific discoveries,but actually re-creating the experiments that led to them. And so, with Riebau’sblessing, Faraday began a series of basic experiments in electricity andchemistry in the back room of the shop. Watts advocated the importance ofhaving teachers and not just learning from books. Faraday dutifully began toattend the numerous lectures on science that were popular in London at the time. Watts advocated not just listening to