interest me. From Kassel you are to travel, also by day,by the shortest way to Koln. The land between Wesel, Mainz, Kassel, andKoln is to be reconnoitered. What roads and good communications exist there? Gather information about communications between Kassel andPaderborn. What is the significance of Kassel? Is the place armed andcapable of resistance? Evaluate the forces of the Prince Elector in regard totheir present state, their artillery, militia, strong places. From Koln you willtravel to meet me at Mainz; you are to keep to the right bank on the Rhineand submit a short appreciation of the country around Dusseldorf, Wesel, andKassel. I shall be at Mainz on the 29th in order to receive your report. Youcan see for yourself how important it is for the beginning of the campaignand its progress that you should have the country well imprinted on yourmemory.NAPOLEON'S WRITTEN INSTRUCTIONS TO FIELD GENERAL,QUOTED IN COMMAND IN WAR, MARTIN VAN CREVELD, 1985Control is an elusive phenomenon. Often, the harder you tug at people, theless control you have over them. Leadership is more than just barking out orders;it takes subtlety.Early in his career, the great Swedish film director Ingmar Bergman wasoften overwhelmed with frustration. He had visions of the films he wanted tomake, but the work of being a director was so taxing and the pressure soimmense that he would lash out at his cast and crew, shouting orders andattacking them for not giving him what he wanted. Some would stew withresentment at his dictatorial ways, others became obedient automatons. Withalmost every new film, Bergman would have to start again with a new cast andcrew, which only made things worse. But eventually he put together a team ofthe finest cinematographers, editors, art directors, and actors in Sweden, peoplewho shared his high standards and whom he trusted. That let him loosen thereins of command; with actors like Max von Sydow, he could just suggest whathe had in mind and watch as the great actor brought his ideas to life. Greatercontrol could now come from letting go.A critical step in creating an efficient chain of command is assembling askilled team that shares your goals and values. That team gives you manyadvantages: spirited, motivated people who can think on their own; an image asa delegator, a fair and democratic leader; and a saving in your own valuableenergy, which you can redirect toward the larger picture.In creating this team, you are looking for people who make up for yourdeficiencies, who have the skills you lack. In the American Civil War, PresidentAbraham Lincoln had a strategy for defeating the South, but he had no militarybackground and was disdained by his generals. What good was a strategy if hecould not realize it? But Lincoln soon found his teammate in General Ulysses S. Grant, who shared his belief in offensive warfare and who did not have anoversize ego. Once Lincoln discovered Grant, he latched on to him, put him incommand, and let him run the war as he saw fit.Be careful in assembling this team