this spirit and win through an alternative resource. In large-scale strategy, when there is a "four hands" spirit, do not give up—it is man's existence. Immediately throw away this spirit and win with a technique the enemy does not expect. In single combat also, when we think we have fallen into the "four hands" situation, we must defeat the enemy by changing our mind and applying a suitable technique according to his condition. You must be able to judge this. To Move the Shade "To move the shade" is used when you cannot see the enemy's spirit. In large-scale strategy, when you cannot see the enemy's position, indicate that you are about to attack strongly, to discover his resources. It is easy then to defeat him with a different method once you see his resources. In single combat, if the enemy takes up a rear or side attitude of the long sword so that you cannot see his intention, make a feint attack, and the enemy will show his long sword, thinking he sees your spirit. Benefiting from what you are shown, you can win with 50To release four hands : “Yotsu te o hanasu” ―the expression “Yotsu te” means the condition of grappling with both arms engaged with the opponent’s arms, or “deadlock”. It is also the name used to describe various articles with four corners joined, such as a fishing net, and was given to an article of ladies’ clothing which consisted of a square of cloth tied from the back over each shoulder and under each arm, with a knot on the breast. certainty. If you are negligent you will miss the timing. Research this well. To Hold Down a Shadow "Holding down a shadow" is used when you can see the enemy's attacking spirit. In large-scale strategy, when the enemy embarks on an attack, if you make a show of strongly suppressing his technique, he will change his mind. Then, altering your spirit, defeat him by forestalling him with a Void spirit. Or, in single combat, hold down the enemy's strong intention with a suitable timing, and defeat him by forestalling him with this timing. You must study this well. To Pass On Many things are said to be passed on. Sleepiness can be passed on, and yawning can be passed on. Time can be passed on also. In large-scale strategy, when the enemy is agitated and shows an inclination to rush, do not mind in the least. Make a show of complete calmness, and the enemy will be taken by this and will become relaxed. When you see that this spirit has been passed on, you can bring about the enemy's defeat by attacking strongly with a Void spirit. In single combat, you can win by relaxing your body and spirit and then, catching on the moment the enemy relaxes, attack strongly and quickly, forestalling him. What is known as "getting someone drunk" is similar to this. You can also infect the enemy with a