colonial legislature. Within afew months he was chosen unanimously by fellow members to serve as the clerkto the legislature, a position of some influence. But when it was time to renew the appointment, a new member of the legislature, Isaac Norris, suddenly voicedhis vehement opposition, supporting another candidate. After much heateddebate Franklin won the vote, but in contemplating the situation, he saw dangeron the horizon.Norris was a wealthy, well-educated, and charismatic businessman. He wasalso ambitious and certain to rise within the ranks. If Franklin becameantagonistic toward him, as would be expected after what had happened with thebattle over the clerk position, he would confirm any unpleasant notions Norrishad entertained of him and convert him into an implacable foe. On the otherhand, if he ignored him, Norris might read this as an example of Franklin’shaughtiness and hate him all the more. To some it might seem to be the strongand manly thing to go on the attack and fight back, proving he was not someoneto mess with. But would it not be infinitely more powerful to work againstNorris’s expectations and subtly convert him into an implacable ally?And so Franklin went to work. He observed the man closely in thelegislature, gathered information from insiders, and thought himself deeply intoNorris’s mind. He came to the conclusion that Norris was a proud and somewhatemotional young man who harbored a few insecurities as well. He seemedimpatient for attention, for being liked and admired by others; perhaps he enviedFranklin’s popularity and achievements. Through his insiders, he learned thatNorris had one rather odd obsession—an extensive personal library containingmany rare books, including one that was particularly rare and that he prizedabove all others. These books seemed to represent to him his own feelings ofdistinction and nobility.Knowing all of this, Franklin decided upon the following course of action: hewrote to Norris a very polite note, expressing admiration for his collection. Hewas an avid book lover himself, and hearing so much about that one rare book inNorris’s collection, he would be excited beyond belief if he could somehowperuse it at his leisure. If Norris would lend it to him for a few days, he wouldtake great care of it and return it promptly.Clearly pleased by this attention, Norris sent the book over right away andFranklin returned it as promised, with another note expressing his gratitude forthe favor. At the next meeting of the legislature, Norris came up to Franklin andengaged him in friendly conversation, something he had never done before. Ashe had predicted, he had created doubt in Norris’s mind. Instead of hissuspicions being confirmed about Franklin, he was confronted with the fact thatthe man behaved as a true gentleman, shared his interest in rare books, and keptto his word. How could he continue to harbor bad feelings without wondering about himself and why he had sent the book? Playing on Norris’s emotionalnature, Franklin shifted his feelings from antagonism to warmth. They becameclose friends and then staunch political allies to the end of their careers.(Franklin would go on to practice