your enemy away. That is wasteful, expensive tobuild up, and leaves you vulnerable to guerrilla-style attacks. Going at yourenemies blow by blow, strength against strength, is equally unstrategic. Insteadyou must first assess their weak points: internal political problems, low morale,shaky finances, overly centralized control, their leader's megalomania. Whilecarefully keeping your own weaknesses out of the fray and preserving yourstrength for the long haul, hit their Achilles' heel again and again. Having theirweaknesses exposed and preyed upon will demoralize them, and, as they tire, new weaknesses will open up. By carefully calibrating strengths andweaknesses, you can bring down your Goliath with a slingshot.Abundance makes me poor.--Ovid (43 B.C.-A.D. 17)In all this--in selection of nutriment, of place and climate, of recreation--therecommands an instinct of self-preservation which manifests itself mostunambiguously as an instinct for self-defense. Not to see many things, not tohear them, not to let them approach one--first piece of ingenuity, first proofthat one is no accident but a necessity. The customary word for this self-defensive instinct is taste. Its imperative commands, not only to say No whenYes would be a piece of "selflessness," but also to say No as little as possible.To separate oneself, to depart from that to which No would be required againand again. The rationale is that defensive expenditures, be they never sosmall, become a rule, a habit, lead to an extraordinary and perfectlysuperfluous impoverishment. Our largest expenditures are our most frequentsmall ones. Warding off, not letting come close, is an expenditure--one shouldnot deceive oneself over this--a strength squandered on negative objectives.One can merely through the constant need to ward off become too weak anylonger to defend oneself.... Another form of sagacity and self-defense consistsin reacting as seldom as possible and withdrawing from situations andrelationships in which one would be condemned as it were to suspend one'sfreedom, one's initiative, and become a mere reagent.ECCE HOMO, FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1888KEYS TO WARFAREReality can be defined by a sharp series of limitations on every living thing, thefinal boundary being death. We have only so much energy to expend before wetire; only so much in the way of food and resources is available to us; our skillsand capacities can go only so far. An animal lives within those limits: it does nottry to fly higher or run faster or expend endless energy amassing a pile of food,for that would exhaust it and leave it vulnerable to attack. It simply tries to makethe most of what it has. A cat, for instance, instinctively practices an economy ofmotion and gesture, never wasting effort. People who live in poverty, similarly,are acutely aware of their limits: forced to make the most of what they have, theyare endlessly inventive. Necessity has a powerful effect on their creativity.The problem faced by those of us who live in societies of abundance is thatwe lose a sense of limit. We are carefully shielded from death and can pass months, even years, without contemplating it. We imagine endless time at ourdisposal and slowly drift further from reality; we imagine endless energy