is necessary to keep the enemyoccupied. This throws them back on the defensive, and once they areplaced that way they cannot rise up again during the entire campaign.--Frederick the Great (1712-1786)REVERSALThis strategy has no reversal. Any effort to seem not to control a situation, torefuse to influence a relationship, is in fact a form of control. By ceding power toothers, you have gained a kind of passive authority that you can use later foryour own purposes. You are also the one determining who has control byrelinquishing it to the other side. There is no escape from the control dynamic.Those who say they are doing so are playing the most insidious control game ofall. HIT THEM WHERE IT HURTSTHE CENTER-OF-GRAVITY STRATEGYEveryone has a source of power on which he or she depends. When you look atyour rivals, search below the surface for that source, the center of gravity thatholds the entire structure together. That center can be their wealth, theirpopularity, a key position, a winning strategy. Hitting them there will inflictdisproportionate pain. Find what the other side most cherishes and protects--that is where you must strike.Man depends on his throat for fluent breathing and the maintenance of life.When his throat is strangled, his five sense organs will lose their sensibilityand no longer function normally. He will not be able to stretch his limbs,which become numb and paralyzed. The man can therefore rarely survive.Thus, when the banners of the enemy come into sight and the beating of itsbattle drums can be heard, we must first ascertain the positions of its backand throat. Then we can attack it from the back and strangle its throat. This isan excellent strategy to crush the enemy.THE WILES OF WAR: 36 MILITARY STRATEGIES FROM ANCIENTCHINA, TRANSLATED BY SUN HAICHEN, 1991PILLARS OF COLLAPSEIn 210 B.C. a young Roman general named Publius Scipio the Younger (latercalled Scipio Africanus) was sent to northeastern Spain with a simple mission: tohold the Ebro River against the powerful Carthaginian armies that werethreatening to cross it and take control of the peninsula. This was Scipio's firstassignment as commander, and as he looked out on the river and plotted hisstrategy, he felt a strange mix of emotions.Eight years earlier the great Carthaginian commander Hannibal had crossedthis river heading north. Onward he had gone into Gaul and then, catching theRomans by surprise, had crossed the Alps into Italy. Scipio, only eighteen at thetime, had fought alongside his father, a general, in the first battles againstHannibal on Italian soil. He had seen the North African's battlefield skills withhis own eyes: Hannibal had maneuvered his small army brilliantly, mademaximum use of his superior cavalry, and through inexhaustible creativity had constantly managed to surprise the Romans and inflict on them a series ofhumiliating defeats, culminating in the virtual annihilation of the Roman legionsat the Battle of Cannae in 216 B.C. Matching wits with Hannibal, Scipio knew,was futile. It had seemed back then that Rome itself was doomed.Scipio also recalled two events after Cannae that had had an overwhelmingeffect on