minister. After studying linguistics at the Summer Institute ofLanguages, a Christian organization, Everett and his family were sent asmissionaries to the Amazon basin, to live with a small group of hunter andgatherers known as the Pirahã, whose language is not related to any other livingdialect. After spending many years among the Pirahã, Everett was finally able tocrack the code of their seemingly indecipherable language, and in the processmade some discoveries about the nature of human language that continue to stircontroversy in linguistics. He has also conducted research, and publishedarticles, on more than a dozen distinct Amazonian languages. Everett has a PhDin linguistics from the State University of Campinas in Brazil. He served asprofessor of Linguistics and Anthropology at the University of Pittsburgh, where he was also chairman of the Department of Linguistics. He has also taught at theUniversity of Manchester (England) and Illinois State University. Everett iscurrently the dean of Arts and Sciences at Bentley University. He has publishedtwo books: the best-selling Don’t Sleep, There are Snakes: Life and Language inthe Amazonian Jungle (2008), and Language: The Cultural Tool (2012). Hiswork with the Pirahã is the subject of a documentary, The Grammar ofHappiness (2012).Teresita Fernández was born in 1968, in Miami, Florida. She received a BFAfrom Florida International University, and her MFA from VirginiaCommonwealth University. Fernández is a conceptual artist who is best knownfor her public sculptures and for her large-scale pieces in unconventionalmaterials. In her work she likes to explore how psychology impacts ourperception of the world around us; for this purpose, she creates immersiveenvironments that challenge our conventional views of art and nature. Her workhas been exhibited in prominent museums around the world, including theMuseum of Modern Art in New York, the San Francisco Museum of ModernArt, and the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. Her large-scalecommissions include a recent site-specific work titled Blind Blue Landscape atthe renowned Bennesee Art site in Naoshima, Japan. Fernández has receivednumerous awards, including a Guggenheim Fellowship, an American Academyin Rome Affiliated Fellowship, and a National Endowment for the Arts Artist’sGrant. In 2005 she was awarded a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, alsoknown as the “genius grant.” In 2011 President Barack Obama appointedFernández to serve on the U.S. Commission on Fine Arts.Paul Graham was born in 1964, in Weymouth, England. His family moved tothe United States when he was four, and he was raised in Monroeville,Pennsylvania. Graham obtained a BA in philosophy from Cornell University,and a PhD in computer science from Harvard University. He studied painting atthe Rhode Island School of Design and the Accademia di Belle Arti in Florence,Italy. In 1995 he cofounded Viaweb, the first application service provider thatallowed users to set up their own Internet stores. After Yahoo! acquired Viawebfor close to $50 million (and renamed it Yahoo! Store), Graham went on to writea highly popular series of online essays about programming, tech startups, thehistory of technology, and art. Inspired by the reaction to a talk he gave at theHarvard Computer Society in 2005, Graham created Y Combinator, anapprenticeship system that