violent--acts.Uncertainty is sometimes better than overt threat: if your opponents are neversure what messing with you will cost, they will not want to find out. Play onpeople's natural fears and anxieties to make them think twice.If your organization is small in numbers, then do what Gideon did: concealthe members in the dark but raise a din and clamor that will make the listenerbelieve that your organization numbers many more than it does.... Alwaysremember the first rule of power tactics: Power is not only what you have butwhat the enemy thinks you have.RULES FOR RADICALS, SAUL D. ALINSKY, 1972REVERSE INTIMIDATIONInevitably in life you will find yourself facing people who are more aggressivethan you are--crafty, ruthless people who are determined to get what they want.Fighting them head-on is generally foolish; fighting is what they are good at, andthey are unscrupulous to boot. You will probably lose. Trying to fend them offby giving them part of what they are after, or otherwise pleasing or appeasingthem, is a recipe for disaster: you are only showing your weakness, invitingmore threats and attacks. But giving in completely, surrendering without a fight,hands them the easy victory they crave and makes you resentful and bitter. It canalso become a bad habit, the path of least resistance in dealing with difficultsituations.Instead of trying to avoid conflict or whining about the injustice of it all,consider an option developed over the centuries by military leaders andstrategists to deal with violent and acquisitive neighbors: reverse intimidation. This art of deterrence rests on three basic facts about war and human nature:First, people are more likely to attack you if they see you as weak or vulnerable.Second, they cannot know for sure that you're weak; they depend on the signsyou give out, through your behavior both present and past. Third, they are aftereasy victories, quick and bloodless. That is why they prey on the vulnerable andweak.Deterrence is simply a matter of turning this dynamic around, altering anyperception of yourself as weak and naive and sending the message that battlewith you will not be as easy as they had thought. This is generally done bytaking some visible action that will confuse aggressors and make them think theyhave misread you: you may indeed be vulnerable, but they are not sure. You'redisguising your weakness and distracting them. Action has much morecredibility than mere threatening or fiery words; hitting back, for instance, evenin some small, symbolic way, will show that you mean what you say. With somany other people around who are timid and easy prey, the aggressor will mostlikely back off and move on to someone else.This form of defensive warfare is infinitely applicable to the battles of dailylife. Appeasing people can be as debilitating as fighting them; deterring them,scaring them out of attacking you or getting in your way, will save you valuableenergy and resources. To deter aggressors you must become adept at deception,manipulating appearances and their perceptions of you--valuable skills that canbe applied to all aspects of daily warfare. And finally, by practicing the art