lectures but taking detailed notes, thenreworking the notes themselves—all of this imprinting the knowledge deeper inthe brain. Faraday would take this even further.Attending the lectures of the popular scientist John Tatum, each week on adifferent subject, he would note down the most important words and concepts,quickly sketch out the various instruments Tatum used, and diagram theexperiments. Over the next few days he would expand the notes into sentences,and then into an entire chapter on the subject, elaborately sketched and narrated.In the course of a year this added up to a thick scientific encyclopedia he hadcreated on his own. His knowledge of science had grown by leaps and bounds,and had assumed a kind of organizational shape modeled on his notes.One day, Monsieur Riebau showed this rather impressive collection of notesto a customer named William Dance, a member of the prestigious RoyalInstitution, an organization that sought to promote the latest advances in science.Thumbing through Faraday’s chapters, Dance was astounded at how clearly andconcisely he had summarized complicated topics. He decided to invite the youngman to attend a series of lectures by the renowned and recently knighted chemistHumphry Davy, to be given at the Royal Institution where Davy was director ofthe chemistry laboratory.The lectures had been sold out well in advance and this was a rare privilegefor a young man of Faraday’s background, but for him it was much more fatefulthan that. Davy was the preeminent chemist of his time; he had made numerousdiscoveries and was advancing the new field of electrochemistry. Hisexperiments with various gases and chemicals were highly dangerous and hadled to numerous accidents. This only added to his reputation as a fearless warriorfor science. His lectures were events—he had a flair for the dramatic, performingclever experiments before a dazzled audience. He came from a modestbackground and had raised himself to the heights of science, having gained theattention of some valuable mentors. To Faraday, Davy was the only livingscientist he could model himself after, considering Davy’s lack of any solidformal education.Arriving early each time and gaining the closest seat he could find, he soakedup every aspect of Davy’s lectures, taking the most detailed notes he had everattempted. These lectures had a different effect upon Faraday than others he hadattended. He was inspired and yet he also could not help but feel somewhatdejected. After all of these years of studying on his own, he had managed toexpand his knowledge of science and of the natural world. But science does notconsist of the accumulation of information. It is a way of thinking, of approaching problems. The scientific spirit is creative—Faraday could feel it inDavy’s presence. As an amateur scientist looking at the field from the outside,his knowledge was one-dimensional and would lead nowhere. He needed tomove to the inside, where he could gain practical, hands-on experience, becomepart of the community and learn how to think like a scientist. And to move closerto this scientific spirit and absorb its essence, he would need a mentor.This seemed like an impossible quest, but with his apprenticeship