hand. ButMetternich possessed a trump card: his years-long study of the czar's ratherstrange personality. Alexander was a highly emotional man who would act onlyin a state of exaltation; he had to turn everything into a crusade. So, right at the beginning of the crisis, Metternich planted the seed that the real crusade herewas one not of Christians against Turks but of monarchies against revolution.Metternich also understood that his main enemy was d'Istria and that hewould have to drive a wedge between d'Istria and the czar. So he lured an envoyto Vienna. In one-on-one negotiations, Metternich was a chess player on thegrand-master level. With Taticheff as with so many others, he first lowered hisopponent's suspicions by playing the foppish, even dim-witted aristocrat. Nexthe drew out the negotiations, miring them in abstract, legalistic discussions. Thatmade him seem even more stupid, further misleading Taticheff but alsoconfusing and irritating him. A confused and riled negotiator is prone to makemistakes--such as reveal too much about what he is after, always a fatal error. Aconfused negotiator is also more easily seduced by emotional demonstrations. Inthis case Metternich used the note from the Turks to stage a little drama in whichhe appeared to reveal a sudden change in his sympathies. That put Taticheff--andthrough him the czar--completely under his spell.From then on, it was child's play to reframe the discussion to suitMetternich's purpose. The offer to stage a conference at which the czar wouldshine was dazzling and alluring, and it also seemed to offer Russia the chance ofgreater influence in European affairs (one of Alexander's deepest desires). In factthe result was the opposite: Alexander ended up signing a document that cutRussia out of the Balkans--Metternich's goal all along. Knowing how easilypeople are seduced by appearances, the Austrian minister gave the czar theappearance of power (being the center of attention at the conference), while hehimself retained its substance (having the signed document). It is what theChinese call giving someone a gaudy piece of painted tile in exchange for jade.As Metternich so often demonstrated, success in negotiation depends on thelevel of preparation. If you enter with vague notions as to what you want, youwill find yourself shifting from position to position depending on what the otherside brings to the table. You may drift to a position that seems appropriate butdoes not serve your interests in the end. Unless you carefully analyze whatleverage you have, your maneuvers are likely to be counterproductive.Before anything else you must anchor yourself by determining with utmostclarity your long-term goals and the leverage you have for reaching them. Thatclarity will keep you patient and calm. It will also let you toss peoplemeaningless concessions that seem generous but actually come cheap, for theydo not hurt your real goals. Before the negotiations begin, study your opponents.Uncovering their weaknesses and unfulfilled desires will give you a differentkind of leverage: the ability to confuse them, make them emotional, seduce themwith pieces of tile. If possible, play a bit of the fool: the less people understand you and where you are