in aperfectly executed strategic envelopment. Hannibal, of course, was a militarygenius, but the Romans take much of the blame for their own defeat: they had afaulty command system, with two tribunes sharing leadership of the army.Disagreeing over how to fight Hannibal, these men fought each other as much asthey fought him, and they made a mess of things.Nearly two thousand years later, Frederick the Great, king of Prussia andleader of its army, outfought and outlasted the five great powers aligned against him in the Seven Years' War partly because he made decisions so much fasterthan the alliance generals, who had to consult each other in every move theymade. In World War II, General Marshall was well aware of the dangers ofdivided leadership and insisted that one supreme commander should lead theAllied armies. Without his victory in this battle, Eisenhower could not havesucceeded in Europe. In the Vietnam War, the unity of command enjoyed by theNorth Vietnamese general Vo Nguyen Giap gave him a tremendous advantageover the Americans, whose strategy was crafted by a crowd of politicians andgenerals.Divided leadership is dangerous because people in groups often think andact in ways that are illogical and ineffective--call it Groupthink. People in groupsare political: they say and do things that they think will help their image withinthe group. They aim to please others, to promote themselves, rather than to seethings dispassionately. Where an individual can be bold and creative, a group isoften afraid of risk. The need to find a compromise among all the different egoskills creativity. The group has a mind of its own, and that mind is cautious, slowto decide, unimaginative, and sometimes downright irrational.This is the game you must play: Do whatever you can to preserve unity ofcommand. Keep the strings to be pulled in your hands; the over-arching strategicvision must come from you and you alone. At the same time, hide your tracks.Work behind the scenes; make the group feel involved in your decisions. Seektheir advice, incorporating their good ideas, politely deflecting their bad ones. Ifnecessary, make minor, cosmetic strategy changes to assuage the insecurepolitical animals in the group, but ultimately trust your own vision. Rememberthe dangers of group decision making. The first rule of effective leadership isnever to relinquish your unity of command.Tomorrow at dawn you depart [from St. Cloud] and travel to Worms, cross theRhine there, and make sure that all preparations for the crossing of the riverby my guard are being made there. You will then proceed to Kassel and makesure that the place is being put in a state of defense and provisioned. Takingdue security precautions, you will visit the fortress of Hanau. Can it besecured by a coup de main? If necessary, you will visit the citadel of Marburgtoo. You will then travel on to Kassel and report to me by way of my charged'affaires at that place, making sure that he is in fact there. The voyage fromFrankfurt to Kassel is not to take place by night, for you are to observeanything that might