By using their army and superior weaponry to kill as many Vietcong aspossible and gain control of the countryside, they would ensure the stability ofthe South Vietnamese government. Once the South was strong enough, NorthVietnam would give up the fight.The North Vietnamese saw the war very differently. By nature and practice,they viewed conflict in much broader terms. They looked at the politicalsituation in the South, where American search-and-destroy missions werealienating South Vietnamese peasants. The North Vietnamese, meanwhile, dideverything they could to win the peasants over and earned for themselves anarmy of millions of silent sympathizers. How could the South be secure whenthe Americans had failed to capture the hearts and minds of the Vietnamesefarmers? The North Vietnamese also looked to the American political scene,where, in 1968, there was to be a presidential election. And they looked atAmerican culture, where support for the war was wide but not deep. TheVietnam War was the first televised war in history; the military was trying tocontrol information about the war, but the images on television spoke forthemselves.On and on the North Vietnamese went, continually broadening their outlookand analyzing the war's global context. And out of this study they crafted theirmost brilliant strategy: the Tet Offensive. Using their army of peasantsympathizers in the South, they were able to infiltrate every part of the country,smuggling in arms and supplies under the cover of the Tet holiday. The targetsthey hit were not only military but televisual: their attacks in Saigon, base ofmost of the American media (including the CBS newsman Walter Cronkite,visiting at the time) were spectacular; Hue and Khe Sanh were also placesheavily covered by American reporters. They also struck symbolic locations--embassies, palaces, air bases--that would suck in media attention. On televisionall this would create the dramatic (and deceptive) impression that the Vietcongwere everywhere while American bombing raids and pacification programs hadgotten nowhere. In effect, the goal of the Tet Offensive was not a military targetbut the American public in front of its televisions. Once Americans lost faith--and in an election year--the war was doomed. The North Vietnamese did nothave to win a single pitched battle on the field, and in fact they never did. But by extending their vision beyond the battlefield to politics and culture, they won thewar.We always tend to look at what is most immediate to us, taking the mostdirect route toward our goals and trying to win the war by winning as manybattles as we can. We think in small, microlevel terms and react to presentevents--but this is petty strategy. Nothing in life happens in isolation; everythingis related to everything else and has a broader context. That context includespeople outside your immediate circle whom your actions affect, the public atlarge, the whole world; it includes politics, for every choice in modern life haspolitical ramifications; it includes culture, the media, the way the public seesyou. Your task as a grand strategist is to extend your vision in all directions--notonly looking further into the future but also seeing more of the world aroundyou,