time to rest; they ran, as fast their feet couldtake them, loaded down in their heavy armor, impelled by the thought of theimminent dangers facing their families and fellow citizens. By four in theafternoon, the fastest among them had straggled to a point overlooking the Bayof Phaleron. The rest soon followed. Within a matter of minutes after theirarrival, the Persian fleet sailed into the bay to see a most unwelcome sight:thousands of Athenian soldiers, caked in dust and blood, standing shoulder toshoulder to fight the landing.The Persians rode at anchor for a few hours, then headed out to sea,returning home. Athens was saved.InterpretationThe victory at Marathon and race to Athens were perhaps the most decisivemoments in Athenian history. Had the soldiers not come in time, the Persianswould have taken the city, then certainly all of Greece, and eventually theywould have expanded throughout the Mediterranean, for no other power inexistence at the time could have stopped them. History would have been alteredirrevocably.Miltiades' plan worked by the narrowest of margins, but it was based onsound and timeless principles. When a powerful foe attacks you in strength,threatening your ability to advance and take the initiative, you must work to make the enemy divide its forces and then defeat these smaller forces one byone--"in detail," as the military say.The key to Miltiades' strategy was his intuition to take the battle toMarathon. By placing himself at the pass that led to Athens, he occupied thecentral position in the war instead of the southern periphery. With the entirearmy holding the pass, the Persians would have a bloody time forcing their waythrough, so they decided to divide their forces before the Spartan reinforcementsarrived. Once divided, and with their cavalry diluted, they lost their advantageand the central position from which they could dominate the war.For the Athenians it was imperative to fight the smallest force first, the onethey faced at Marathon. That done, and having taken the central position, theyhad the shorter route to Athens, while the invaders had to round the coast.Arriving first at Phaleron, the Athenians allowed no safe place to disembark. ThePersians could have returned to Marathon, but the arrival of the bloodiedAthenian soldiers from the north must have told them they had already lost thebattle there, and their spirits were broken. Retreat was the only option.There will be times in life when you face a powerful enemy--a destructiveopponent seeking your undoing, a slew of seemingly insurmountable problemshitting you at once. It is natural to feel intimidated in these situations, which mayparalyze you into inaction or make you wait in the vain hope that time will bringa solution. But it is a law of war that by allowing the larger force to come to you,at full strength and unified, you increase the odds against you; a large andpowerful army on the move will gain an irresistible momentum if leftunchecked. You will find yourself quickly overwhelmed. The wisest course is totake a risk, meet the enemy before it comes to you, and try to blunt itsmomentum