Mein Kampf (Hitler) Melas, Michael Mencius (Confucian philosopher) Menelaus Menoetes Metis Metternich, Klemens von Alexander I and alliance strategy of Napoleon and negotiation style of passive-aggression strategy of personality of Russia and on victory Mexico, Cortes's conquering of MGM Milan, duke of Mildred Pierce military deception. See deception strategies military history. See war/warfare, history of Military History of Ulysses S. Grant (Badeau) Military Misfortunes: The Anatomy of Failure in War (Cohen and Gooch) military thinking, Asian military training German Mongol Prussian Zulu Miller, Tom Milne, A.A. Miltiades mind. See also thinking as an army controlling focused guerrilla-war-of-the penetrating. See communication/ communication strategies presence of as a river Mind of War, The: John Boyd and American Security (Hammond) Miracle Worker, The mirroring people mistakes compelling fear of making mobility. See speed and mobility Moctezuma II, emperor of Mexico Mohammed Moltke, Helmuth von Mongols annihilation by divide-and-conquer strategy of intelligence gathering by Khwarizm and slow-slow-quick-quick strategy of terrorism of Montgomery, Bernard morale (motivation) contagiousness of emotion manipulation and as insufficient alone steps to undermining morality moral terrain moral warfare/warriors avoiding defending against as exterior maneuver public opinion in self-interest war compared with types of Moreau, Jean Morris, Dick Moscow, Napoleon's attack on Moses Mother Earth motivation. See morale (motivation) Moulin, Jean movie making. See Hollywood Muhammad II, shah of Khwarizm Muhammad Tapar mujahideen Mumon, Zen Master Munenori, Yagyu Munich Olympics, attack on Murat, Caroline "Murders in the Rue Morgue, The" (Poe) Mure, David Murphy's Law Musashi, Miyamoto Mussolini, Benito Mutekatsu-ryu My Bondage and My Freedom (Douglass) myth, group mythology Nalebuff, Barry J. Naoshige, Lord Naples, revolution of 1820 in Napoleon I. See Bonaparte, Napoleon Napoleon II narcissism Narodnaya Volia (People's Will) Naseby, Battle of Natal Nationalists, Chinese National Youth Administration Native Americans. See also specific tribes counterattack strategy used against intelligence strategy used by unconventional warfare of negotiation friendliness in war and, comparison between warrior vs. shopkeeper style of Nelson, Horatio Nereus neurotic pattern New Carthage New Deal New Model Army, British New York Giants New York Yankees Nicholas I, czar of Russia Nicholson, Harold Nietzsche, Friedrich Night After Night "Night in a Surrealist Forest" (Dali) Ninety-five Theses (Luther) Nineveh Nixon, Richard Nizan al-Mulk nonengagement strategy North Vietnamese army camouflage used by grand strategy of inner-front strategy of as moral warriors unity of command in Noyon, bishop of objectivity Ochiai, Hidy Octavian Odawara Castle Odysseus Odyssey, The (Homer) Oedipus Rex (Sophocles) offensive warfare annihilation strategy blitzkrieg strategy center-of-gravity strategy diplomatic. See negotiation divide-and-conquer strategy exit strategy. See exits and endings forcing strategies grand strategy. See grand strategy intelligence strategy maneuver. See maneuver warfare turning strategy oil industry, strategy examples from Ojibwas Olivier, Lawrence Olmutz, Austria Olympias Oman, Charles one-upmanship direct approach to glaciation in through mockery On Partisans and Irregular Forces (Corvey) On War (von Clausewitz) Operation Desert Storm Operation Sealion opponents. See enemy(ies) Orestes Orgakov, Nikolai organizational war. See also leadership command-and-control strategy controlled-chaos strategy morale strategies Orthrus Otrar outflanking strategy. See turning strategy outsider, power of the Ovid pacifism (nonviolence)