the practices, and once again the difference was not so much howthey were conducted as the spirit behind them--they felt different. They wereshorter but more physically demanding, almost to the point of torture. And theywere intense, with the same simple plays endlessly repeated. Unlike othercoaches, Lombardi explained what he was doing: installing a simpler system,based not on novelty and surprise but on efficient execution. The players had to concentrate intensely--the slightest mistake and they were doing extra laps ormaking the whole team do extra laps. And Lombardi changed the drillsconstantly: the players were never bored and could never relax their mentalfocus.Earlier coaches had always treated a few players differently: the stars. Theyhad a bit of an attitude, and they took off early and stayed up late. The other menhad come to accept this as part of the pecking order, but deep down they resentedit. Lombardi, though, had no favorites; for him there were no stars. "CoachLombardi is very fair," said defensive tackle Henry Jordan. "He treats us all thesame--like dogs." The players liked that. They enjoyed seeing Hornung yelled atand disciplined just as much as the others.Lombardi's criticisms were relentless and got under his players' skins. Heseemed to know their weak points, their insecurities. How did he know, forinstance, that Jordan hated to be criticized in front of the others? Lombardiexploited his fear of public lashings to make him try harder. "We were alwaystrying to show [Lombardi] he was wrong," commented one player. "That was hispsych."Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more; Or close the wall upwith our English dead. In peace there's nothing so becomes a man As modeststillness and humility: But when the blast of war blows in our ears, Thenimitate the action of the tiger; Stiffen the sinews, summon up the blood,Disguise fair nature with hard-favour'd rage; Then lend the eye a terribleaspect; Let it pry through the portage of the head Like the brass cannon; letthe brow o'erwhelm it As fearfully as doth a galled rock O'erhang and juttyhis confounded base, Swill'd with the wild and wasteful ocean. Now set theteeth and stretch the nostril wide, Hold hard to the breath and bend up everyspirit To his full height. On, on, you noblest English, Whose blood is fet fromfathers of war-proof! Fathers that, like so many Alexanders, Have in theseparts from morn till even fought And sheathed their swords for lack ofargument: Dishonour not your mothers; now attest That those whom youcall'd fathers did beget you. Be copy now to men of grosser blood, And teachthem how to war. And you, good yeomen, Whose limbs were made inEngland, show us here The mettle of your pasture; let us swear That you areworth your breeding; which I doubt not; For there is none of you so meanand base, That hath not noble lustre in your eyes. I see you stand likegreyhounds in the slips, Straining upon the start. The game's afoot: Followyour spirit, and upon this charge Cry "God for Harry, England, and SaintGeorge!" KING