big battle or when morale had slippedfor some reason. At these moments he would tell them they were making historytogether. If a squad were about to lead a charge or seemed in trouble, he wouldride over and yell, "Thirty-eighth: I know you! Take me that village--at thecharge!" His soldiers felt they weren't just obeying orders, they were living out agreat drama.Napoleon rarely showed anger, but when he did, his men felt worse than justguilty or upset. Late in the first Italian campaign, Austrian troops had forcedsome of his troops into a humiliating retreat for which there was no excuse.Napoleon visited their camp personally. "Soldiers, I am not satisfied with you,"he told them, his large gray eyes seemingly on fire. "You have shown neitherbravery, discipline, nor perseverance.... You have allowed yourselves to bedriven from positions where a handful of men could have stopped an army.Soldiers of the Thirty-ninth and Eighty-fifth, you are not French soldiers.General, chief of staff, let it be inscribed on their colors: 'They no longer formpart of the Army of Italy!'" The soldiers were astounded. Some cried; othersbegged for another chance. They repented their weakness and turned completelyaround: the Thirty-ninth and Eighty-fifth would go on to distinguish themselvesfor strengths they had never shown previously. Some years later, during a difficult campaign against the Austrians inBavaria, the French won a hard-fought victory. The next morning Napoleonreviewed the Thirteenth Regiment of Light Infantry, which had played a key rolein the battle, and asked the colonel to name its bravest man. The colonel thoughtfor a moment: "Sir, it is the drum major." Napoleon immediately asked to see theyoung bandsman, who appeared, quaking in his boots. Then Napoleonannounced loudly for everyone to hear, "They say that you are the bravest manin this regiment. I appoint you a knight of the Legion of Honor, baron of theEmpire, and award you a pension of four thousand francs." The soldiers gasped.Napoleon was famous for his well-timed promotions and for promoting soldierson merit, making even the lowliest private feel that if he proved himself, hecould someday be a marshal. But a drum major becoming a baron overnight?That was entirely beyond their experience. Word of it spread rapidly through thetroops and had an electrifying effect--particularly on the newest conscripts, theones who were most homesick and depressed.Throughout his long, very bloody campaigns and even his heart-wrenchingdefeats--the bitter winter in Russia, the eventual exile to Elba, the final act atWaterloo--Napoleon's men would go to the ends of the earth for Le Petit Caporaland for no one else.InterpretationNapoleon was the greatest man manager in history: he took millions of unruly,undisciplined, unsoldierly young men, recently liberated by the FrenchRevolution, and molded them into one of the most successful fighting forcesever known. Their high morale was all the more remarkable for the ordeals heput them through. Napoleon used every trick in the book to build his army. Heunited them around a cause, spreading first the ideas of the French Revolution,later the glory of France as a growing empire. He treated them well