stress that can be charged atany point. By his calculations, electromagnetic waves move at the speed of186,000 miles per second, which happens to be the speed of light. This could notsimply be some coincidence. Light must therefore be a visible manifestation ofan entire spectrum of electromagnetic waves.This was a groundbreaking and novel concept of the physical universe, but to This was a groundbreaking and novel concept of the physical universe, but tomake it consistent with Newton, Maxwell and others assumed the existence of a“light-bearing ether,” a substance that could oscillate and produce theseelectromagnetic waves, analogous to water for ocean waves, or air for soundwaves. This concept added one more absolute to the Newtonian equation—thatof absolute rest. The speed of the movement of these waves could only bemeasured against the backdrop of something at rest, which would be the etheritself. This ether would have to be something strange—covering the entireuniverse but not in any way interfering with the movement of planets or objects.Scientists around the world had been struggling for decades to provesomehow the existence of this ether, concocting all sorts of elaborateexperiments, but it seemed an impossible quest, and this raised increasinglymore questions about the Newtonian universe and the absolutes on which itdepended. Albert Einstein devoured everything he could about Maxwell’s workand the questions it raised. Einstein himself had a basic need to believe in laws,in the existence of an ordered universe, and experiencing doubts on these lawscaused him great anxiety.One day, in the midst of all of these thoughts and while still attending theschool at Aarau, an image appeared in his mind: that of a man moving at thespeed of light itself. As he pondered this image, it turned into a sort of puzzle, orwhat he would later call a thought experiment: if the man were moving at thespeed of light alongside a light beam, he should be able to “observe such a beamof light as an electromagnetic field at rest though spatially oscillating.”Intuitively, however, this made no sense to him for two reasons. The momentthe man would look at the light source to see the beam, the light pulse would bemoving ahead of him at the speed of light; he could not perceive it otherwise,since visible light travels at that constant speed. The speed of the light pulse withrespect to the observer would still be 186,000 miles per second. The lawgoverning the speed of light or any electromagnetic wave would have to be thesame to someone standing still on Earth, or someone theoretically moving at thespeed of light. There could not be two separate laws. And yet in theory it stillcould be supposed that one could catch up with and see the wave itself before itappeared as light. It was a paradox, and it made him unbearably anxious as hecontemplated it.The next year Einstein entered the Zurich Polytechnic Institute, and onceagain his dislike for traditional schooling returned. He did not do particularlywell at math. He disliked the way physics was taught, and he started taking manyclasses in totally