something about how the brain itself functioned.Stimulated by this book, he conducted his own experiments, the results of Stimulated by this book, he conducted his own experiments, the results ofwhich he managed to get published in a prestigious journal, which in turn led toan invitation to study visual neuroscience in the graduate department atCambridge University. Excited by this chance to pursue something more suitedto his interests, Ramachandran accepted the invitation. After a few months atCambridge, however, he realized that he did not fit in this environment. In hisboyhood dreams, science was a great romantic adventure, an almost religious-like quest for the truth. But at Cambridge, for the students and faculty, it seemedto be more like a job; you put in your hours, you contributed some small piece toa statistical analysis, and that was that.He soldiered on, finding his own interests within the department, andcompleted his degree. A few years later he was hired as an assistant professor invisual psychology at the University of California at San Diego. As had happenedso many times before, after a few years his mind began to drift to yet anothersubject—this time to the study of the brain itself. He became intrigued by thephenomenon of phantom limbs—people who have had an arm or leg amputatedand yet still feel a paralyzing pain in the missing limb. He proceeded to conductexperiments on phantom limb subjects. These experiments led to some excitingdiscoveries about the brain itself, as well as a novel way to relieve such patientsof their pain.Suddenly the feeling of not fitting in, of restlessness, was gone. Studyinganomalous neurological disorders would be the subject to which he could devotethe rest of his life. It opened up questions that fascinated him about the evolutionof consciousness, the origin of language, and so on. It was as if he had come fullcircle to the days of collecting the rarest forms of seashells. This was a niche hehad all to himself, one he could command for years to come, that correspondedto his deepest inclinations and would serve best the cause of scientificadvancement.B. For Yoky Matsuoka, childhood was a period of confusion and blur. Growingup in Japan in the 1970s, everything seemed laid out for her in advance. Theschool system would funnel her into a field that was appropriate for girls, andthe possibilities were rather narrow. Her parents, believing in the importance ofsports in her development, pushed her into competitive swimming at a very earlyage. They also had her take up the piano. For other children in Japan it may havebeen comforting to have their lives directed in such a fashion, but for Yoky itwas painful. She was interested in all kinds of subjects—particularly math andscience. She liked sports but not swimming. She had no idea what she wanted tobecome or how she could possibly fit into such a regimented world. At the age of eleven she finally asserted herself. She had had enough ofswimming and wanted to take up tennis. Her parents agreed to her wishes. Beingintensely competitive, she had great dreams