short, and theRoman cavalry was repulsed and fled. Just as this battle of the cavalry wasfinished, the infantry became engaged, and as long as the Gauls andSpaniards kept their ranks unbroken, both sides were equally matched instrength and courage. At length after long and repeated efforts the Romansclosed up their ranks, echeloned their front, and by the sheer weight of theirdeep column bore down the division of the enemy which was stationed infront of Hannibal's line, and was too thin and weak to resist the pressure.Without a moment's pause they followed up their broken and hastilyretreating foe till they took to headlong flight. Cutting their way through tothe mass of fugitives, who offered no resistance, they penetrated as far as theAfricans who were stationed on both wings, somewhat further back than theGauls and Spaniards who had formed the advanced centre. As the latter fellback, the whole front became level, and as they continued to give ground, itbecame concave and crescent-shaped, the Africans at either end forming thehorns. As the Romans rushed on incautiously between them, they wereenfiladed by the two wings, which extended and closed round them in therear. On this, the Romans, who had fought one battle to no purpose, left the Gauls and Spaniards, whose rear they had been slaughtering, andcommenced a fresh struggle with the Africans. The contest was a very one-sided one, for not only were they hemmed in on all sides, but wearied with theprevious fighting they were meeting fresh and vigorous opponents.THE HISTORY OF ROME, LIVY, 59 B.C.-A.D. 17We humans are extremely clever creatures: in disaster or setback, we oftenfind a way to adapt, to turn the situation around. We look for any gap and oftenfind it; we thrive on hope, craftiness, and will. The history of war is littered withstories of dramatic adjustments and reversals, except in one place: theenvelopment. Whether physical or psychological, this is the only true exceptionto the possibility of turning things around.When properly executed, this strategy gives your opponents no gaps toexploit, no hope. They are surrounded, and the circle is tightening. In theabstract space of social and political warfare, encirclement can be any maneuverthat gives your opponents the feeling of being attacked from all sides, beingpushed into a corner and denied hope of making a counterattack. Feelingsurrounded, their willpower will weaken. Like the Zulus, keep a force in reserve,the loins to work with your horns--you hit them with these forces when yousense their weakness growing. Let the hopelessness of their situation encircletheir minds.You must make your opponent acknowledge defeat from the bottom of hisheart.--Miyamoto Musashi (1584-1645)KEYS TO WARFAREThousands of years ago, we humans lived a nomadic life, wandering acrossdeserts and plains, hunting and gathering. Then we shifted into living insettlements and cultivating our food. The change brought us comfort and control,but in a part of our spirit we remain nomads: we cannot help but associate theroom to roam and wander with a feeling of freedom. To a cat, tight, enclosedspaces may mean comfort, but to us they conjure