toward the ground, below the level of the approaching MiG, doingeverything he could to make it difficult for the enemy to get a read on him withhis radar, including flying at a right angle to the ground to make his plane asskinny as possible. Without a radar reading, the MiG could not launch a missile.Everything was happening so fast. At any moment his own radar could light up,indicating the enemy had locked into him and he was as good as dead. He had one chance to make it: evading the MiG until it got too close to fire, and drawingit into a dogfight—a circular battle in the air that was a rare occurrence inmodern warfare. At the back of his mind he was also trying to buy enough timefor his wingman to help him out, and he could somehow sense Mole’s presencefollowing him from a distance. But time would bring another danger—thepresence of the second MiG on the scene.He tried every evasive maneuver in the book. He saw the MiG getting closerand closer when suddenly he heard from Mole, who had been following him andhad now maneuvered into position. As Rodriguez looked over his shoulder, hecould see the enemy MiG exploding—Mole’s missile had struck it. As the chasehad unfolded, everything had gone as Rodriguez wanted, but there was not asecond to relax. The second MiG was now rapidly approaching.Mole ascended to 20,000 feet. As the MiG bore down on Rodriguez’s plane,its pilot realized Mole’s presence above him, and began to maneuver up anddown to somehow escape being trapped between the two of them. Using thisinstant of confusion, Rodriguez was able to get inside the MiG’s turning circle.It had now turned into a classic two-circle dogfight in which each plane tried tocircle onto the tail of the other and into firing range, moving closer to the groundwith each succeeding loop. They circled and circled around each other. Finally,at 3,600 feet, Rodriguez got a reading and locked his missiles on the MiG. TheIraqi pilot went into a hard evasive maneuver, turning directly toward theground, flipping upside down and trying to circle into a reverse direction toescape, but in the few seconds of the dogfight the pilot had lost awareness ofhow close they had drifted to the ground, and he crashed into the desert below.Mole and Rodriguez returned to the base to debrief their superiors on themission, but as Rodriguez went over it all and watched video of the encounters,he had a strange sensation. He could not really recall any moment of it. It hadhappened so fast. The entire encounter with the MiGs had only lasted three tofour minutes, and the final dogfight a matter of seconds. He must have beenthinking in some way—he had executed some nearly perfect maneuvers. Forinstance, he had no recollection of deciding to jettison the fuel tanks nor wheresuch an idea came from. It must have been something he had learned, andsomehow in the moment it had simply occurred to him, and very easily mighthave saved his life.