the first time, the Greek city-stateswere united in a single confederation. Soon after the terms of the alliance wereagreed upon, Philip proposed a united war against the hated Persians. Theproposal was happily accepted, with Athens leading the way. Somehoweveryone had forgotten how dishonorable Philip had been; they onlyremembered the king who had recently been so generous.In 336 B.C., before the war against Persia got under way, Philip wasassassinated. It would be his son Alexander who would lead the league into warand the creation of an empire. And through it all, Athens would remainMacedonia's most loyal ally, its critical anchor of stability within the HellenicLeague.InterpretationOn one level, war is a relatively simple affair: you maneuver your army to defeatyour enemy by killing enough of its soldiers, taking enough of its land, ormaking yourself secure enough to proclaim victory. You may have to retreat hereand there, but your intention is eventually to advance as far as possible.Negotiation, on the other hand, is almost always awkward. On the one hand, youneed both to secure your existing interests and to get as much on top of them asyou can; on the other hand, you need to bargain in good faith, make concessions,and gain the opposing side's trust. To mix these needs is an art, and an almostimpossible one, for you can never be sure that the other side is acting in goodfaith. In this awkward realm between war and peace, it is easy to misread theopponent, leading to a settlement that is not in your long-term interest.Philip's solution was to see negotiation not as separate from war but rather asan extension of it. Negotiation, like war, involved maneuver, strategy, anddeception, and it required you to keep advancing, just as you would on thebattlefield. It was this understanding of negotiation that led Philip to offer toleave Amphipolis independent while promising to take it for Athens later on, apromise he never meant to keep. This opening maneuver bought him friendshipand time, and kept the pesky Athenians out of his hair while he dealt with his enemies elsewhere. The Peace of Philocrates similarly covered his moves incentral Greece and kept the Athenians off balance. Having decided at some pointthat his ultimate goal was to unite all of Greece and lead it on a crusade againstPersia, Philip determined that Athens--with its noble history--would have tofunction as a symbolic center of the Hellenic League. His generous peace termswere calculated to purchase the city's loyalty.Philip never worried about breaking his word. Why should he sheepishlyhonor his agreements when he knew the Athenians would find some excuse lateron to extend their outposts to the north at his expense? Trust is not a matter ofethics, it is another maneuver. Philip saw trust and friendship as qualities forsale. He would buy them from Athens later on, when he was powerful and hadthings to offer it in exchange.Like Philip, you must see any negotiating situation in which your vitalinterests are at stake as a realm of pure maneuver, warfare by other means.Earning people's trust