is so deep that we cannow see the whole picture with complete clarity. We have access to the heart oflife—to human nature and natural phenomena. That is why the artwork ofMasters touches us to the core; the artist has captured something of the essenceof reality. That is why the brilliant scientist can uncover a new law of physics,and the inventor or entrepreneur can hit upon something no one else hasimagined.We can call this power intuition, but intuition is nothing more than a suddenand immediate seizing of what is real, without the need for words or formulas.The words and formulas may come later, but this flash of intuition is whatultimately brings us closer to reality, as our minds suddenly become illuminatedby some particle of truth previously hidden to us and to others.An animal has the capacity to learn, but it largely relies on its instincts toconnect to its surroundings and save itself from danger. Through instinct, it canact quickly and effectively. The human relies instead on thinking and rationalityto understand its environment. But such thinking can be slow, and in its to understand its environment. But such thinking can be slow, and in itsslowness can become ineffective. So much of our obsessive, internal thoughtprocess tends to disconnect us from the world. Intuitive powers at the masterylevel are a mix of the instinctive and the rational, the conscious and theunconscious, the human and the animal. It is our way of making sudden andpowerful connections to the environment, to feeling or thinking inside things. Aschildren we had some of this intuitive power and spontaneity, but it is generallydrummed out of us by all of the information that overloads our minds over time.Masters return to this childlike state, their works displaying degrees ofspontaneity and access to the unconscious, but at a much higher level than thechild.If we move through the process to this endpoint, we activate the intuitivepower latent in every human brain, one that we may have briefly experiencedwhen we worked so deeply on a single problem or project. In fact, often in lifewe have glimpses of this power—for instance, when we have an inkling of whatwill come next in a particular situation, or when the perfect answer to a problemcomes to us out of nowhere. But these moments are ephemeral and not based onenough experience to make them repeatable. When we reach mastery, thisintuition is a power at our command, the fruit of working through the lengthierprocess. And because the world prizes creativity and this ability to uncover newaspects of reality, it brings us tremendous practical power as well.Think of mastery in this way: Throughout history, men and women have felttrapped by the limitations of their consciousness, by their lack of contact withreality and the power to affect the world around them. They have sought allkinds of shortcuts to this expanded consciousness and sense of control, in theform of magic rituals, trances, incantations, and drugs. They have devoted theirlives to alchemy, in search of the philosopher’s stone—the elusive substance thattransformed all matter