In turn she also told Metternich that Napoleon wasunhappy with his wife, Empress Josephine, who could not bear children; he wasconsidering divorce. Napoleon did not seem upset that Metternich knew suchthings about his personal life.In 1809, seeking revenge for its ignominious defeat at Austerlitz, Austriadeclared war on France. Napoleon only welcomed this event, which gave him achance to beat the Austrians still more soundly than before. The war was hardfought, but the French prevailed, and Napoleon imposed a humiliatingsettlement, annexing whole sections of the Austrian Empire. Austria's militarywas dismantled, its government was overhauled, and Napoleon's friendMetternich was named foreign minister--exactly where Napoleon wanted him.Several months later something happened that caught Napoleon slightly offguard but delighted him: the Austrian emperor offered him his eldest daughter,the Archduchess Marie Louise, in marriage. Napoleon knew that the Austrianaristocracy hated him; this had to be Metternich's work. Alliance by marriagewith Austria would be a strategic tour de force, and Napoleon happily acceptedthe offer, first divorcing Josephine, then marrying Marie Louise in 1810.Metternich accompanied the archduchess to Paris for the wedding, and nowhis relationship with Napoleon grew still warmer. Napoleon's marriage madehim a member of one of Europe's greatest families, and to a Corsican, familywas everything; he had won a dynastic legitimacy he had long craved. Inconversation with the prince, he opened up even more than before. He was alsodelighted with his new empress, who revealed a keen political mind. He let herin on his plans for empire in Europe.In 1812, Napoleon invaded Russia. Now Metternich came to him with arequest: the formation of an army of 30,000 Austrian soldiers at Napoleon'sdisposal. In return Napoleon would let Austria rebuild its military. Napoleon sawno harm in this step; he was allied with Austria by marriage, and rearmamentthere would help him in the end.Months later the Russian invasion had turned into a disaster, and Napoleonwas forced to retreat, his army decimated. Now Metternich offered his servicesas a mediator between France and the other European powers. Centrally placed as it is, Austria had performed that task in the past, and anyway Napoleon hadlittle choice: he needed time to recoup. Even if Austria's role as a mediatorallowed it to reassert its independence, he had little to fear from his in-laws.In all the martial arts, in all the performing arts and still more in all theforms of human behavior, a man's postures or moves are based on themovements of his [invisible] mind.... In the Kage Style of swordsmanship aswordsman reads his opponent's mind through his postures or moves.... Whatmind can penetrate his opponent's mind? It is a mind that has been trainedand cultivated to the point of detachment with perfect freedom. It is as clearas a mirror that can reflect the motions within his opponent's mind.... Whenone stands face to face with his opponents, his mind must not be revealed inthe form of moves. Instead his mind should reflect his opponent's mind likewater reflecting the moon.LIVES OF MASTER SWORDSMEN, MAKOTO SUGAWARA, 1988By the spring of 1813, negotiations had broken down and