but neverspoiled them. He appealed not to their greed but to their thirst for glory andrecognition. He led from the front, proving his bravery again and again. He kepthis men moving--there was always a new campaign for glory. Having bondedwith them, he skillfully played on their emotions. More than soldiers fighting inan army, his men felt themselves part of a myth, united under the emperor'slegendary eagle standards.If you wish to be loved by your soldiers, husband their blood and do not leadthem to slaughter.FREDERICK THE GREAT, 1712-86 Of all Napoleon's techniques, none was more effective than his use ofpunishments and rewards, all staged for the greatest dramatic impact. Hispersonal rebukes were rare, but when he was angry, when he punished, the effectwas devastating: the target felt disowned, outcast. As if exiled from the warmthof his family, he would struggle to win back the general's favor and then never togive him a reason to be angry again. Promotions, rewards, and public praisewere equally rare, and when they came, they were always for merit, never forsome political calculation. Caught between the poles of wanting never todisplease Napoleon and yearning for his recognition, his men were pulled intohis sway, following him devotedly but never quite catching up.Learn from the master: the way to manage people is to keep them insuspense. First create a bond between your soldiers and yourself. They respectyou, admire you, even fear you a little. To make the bond stronger, hold yourselfback, create a little space around yourself; you are warm yet with a touch ofdistance. Once the bond is forged, appear less often. Make both yourpunishments and your praises rare and unexpected, whether for mistakes or forsuccesses that may seem minor at the time but have symbolic meaning.Understand: once people know what pleases you and what angers you, they turninto trained poodles, working to charm you with apparent good behavior. Keepthem in suspense: make them think of you constantly and want to please you butnever know just how to do it. Once they are in the trap, you will have a magneticpull over them. Motivation will become automatic. Authority: The Way means inducing the people to have the same aim asthe leadership, so that they will share death and share life, without fearof danger.--Sun-tzu (fourth century B.C.)REVERSAL If morale is contagious, so is its opposite: fear and discontent can spread throughyour troops like wildfire. The only way to deal with them is to cut them offbefore they turn into panic and rebellion.In 58 B.C., when Rome was fighting the Gallic War, Julius Caesar waspreparing for battle against the Germanic leader Ariovistus. Rumors about theferocity and size of the German forces were flying, and his army was panickyand mutinous. Caesar acted fast: first he had the rumormongers arrested. Next headdressed his soldiers personally, reminding them of their brave ancestors whohad fought and defeated the Germans. He would not lead their weakerdescendants into battle; since the Tenth Legion alone seemed immune to thegrowing panic, he would take them alone. As Caesar