are talking about have roots in ourdevelopment as the thinking animal; they have an evolutionary purpose that isextremely helpful to understand, and one that is highly relevant to the times inwhich we live.The Roots of Masterly IntuitionFor nearly all animals, speed is the critical factor in survival. A few seconds canspell the difference between avoiding a predator or meeting death. And for thepurposes of such speed, organisms have evolved elaborate instincts. Aninstinctual response is immediate and is generally triggered by certain stimuli.Sometimes organisms possess instincts that are so finely calibrated tocircumstances that they seem to have uncanny abilities.Take, for instance, the Ammophila wasp. With incredible speed the femaleAmmophila is able to sting her various victims—spiders, beetles, caterpillars—in precisely the right place to paralyze but not kill them. Into the paralyzed fleshshe lays her eggs, providing her larvae with fresh meat to feast upon for severaldays. In each of these victims the stinging points are different—for instance,with the caterpillar, she must hit at three separate points to paralyze the entirecreature. Because it is such a delicate operation, sometimes the Ammophilamisses and kills the victim, but generally, her success rate is high enough toensure the survival of her offspring. In this process there is no time forcalculating the kind of victim and the exact spot to hit. It is instant, as if the wasphas a feel for the nerve centers of her various victims, and can sense them fromthe inside.Our primitive ancestors had their own sets of instincts, many of whichremain buried within us to this day. But as these ancestors slowly developedreasoning powers, they had to detach themselves from their immediatecircumstances and depend less on instinct. To notice behavior patterns in theanimals they were tracking, they had to connect them to other actions that werenot immediately apparent. They had to make similar calculations when it cameto locating food sources, or to navigating the long distances they traveled onfoot. With this ability to detach themselves from the environment and seepatterns, they gained tremendous mental powers, but this development alsopresented a great danger—increasing amounts of information for the brain to presented a great danger—increasing amounts of information for the brain toprocess and a consequent loss of speed in reacting to events.Such slowness could have spelled doom for us as a species if not for acompensatory power that the human brain developed. Years of trackingparticular animals and observing their surroundings gave our ancestors a feel fortheir environment in all of its complexity. Knowing the behavior patterns ofvarious animals, they could anticipate where predators might strike, and sensewhere prey might lie. They came to know so well the long distances theytraveled that they could negotiate these spaces quickly and effectively, withouthaving to calculate. In other words, they developed a primitive form of intuition.Through continual experience and practice, our ancestors recovered some of theimmediacy and speed they had lost. They could respond intuitively instead ofinstinctually. On this level, intuition was more powerful than instinct in that itwas not tied to very specific circumstances or stimuli, but