had become too costly, so it was called off--but a few years laterEdward tried again.This time an English army penetrated farther into Scotland, but again, inresponse, Scottish raiders rode south into England, wreaking still more havoc on farms and property. And in Scotland itself Bruce's army burned their owncountrymen's crops, leaving the English invaders nothing to eat. As before, theEnglish wore themselves out chasing Bruce, but to no avail--the Scots refusedbattle. Bivouacked in their camps, the English soldiers would hear bagpipes andhorns out in the dark at night, making it impossible to sleep. Hungry, tired, andirritated to no end, they soon retreated back to northern England, only to findtheir own land barren of crops and cattle. Morale sank. No one wanted to fight inScotland anymore. Slowly one castle after another fell back into Scottish hands.In 1314 the Scots finally engaged in direct combat with the English, at theBattle of Bannockburn, and defeated them. It was a most humiliating loss forEdward II, who swore to avenge it. In 1322 he decided to finish Bruce off onceand for good with a vigorous campaign worthy of his father. Organizing andpersonally leading the largest army yet to fight the rebellious Scots, Edward gotas far as Edinburgh Castle. At one point he sent foragers out to look for food inthe countryside; they returned with a single decrepit bull and an empty wagon.Dysentery swept the English troops. Edward was forced to retreat, and when hereached northern England, he saw that the Scots had once again razed the fieldsthere, and more thoroughly than ever. Hunger and disease finished off theremnants of his army. The campaign was such a disaster that a rebellion brokeout among Edward's lords: he fled but in 1327 was captured and killed.Another anecdote explaining iwao-no-mi concerns an accomplished warriorwho had reached the highest stage of the art of sword fighting. Having beenenlightened as to the true meaning of the art of sword fighting, which shouldbe based on the promotion of well-being of people rather than the destructionor killing of others, this great master was not interested in fighting anylonger. His ability in the art of sword fighting was absolutely unquestionable;he was respected and feared by everyone. He walked the streets with a canelike a bored old man and yet wherever he went people looked at him withintense fear and respect. People were careful not to anger him and the oldman was nonchalant. This is akin to having a huge rock hanging above amountain path. People are afraid of the rock, which they believe may comedown at any moment, and so they walk quietly and carefully under the rock.But the rock is actually very stable, being planted in the ground so deeply thatit will never fall down. But people do not know it, and they continue to fearthat it will fall down if they make any kind of loud noise as they walk under it.The rock just sits there completely indifferent to its surroundings and people'sfear and awe.A WAY TO VICTORY: THE ANNOTATED BOOK OF