Volia had a somewhat developed understanding of the Russianserfs, but more recent terrorist groups, such as the Weathermen in the UnitedStates and the Red Brigades in Italy, have been so divorced from the public as to verge on the delusional. Accentuating the terrorists' isolation and denying them apolitical base should be part of any effective counterstrategy against them.When Odawara Castle fell to the attackers in the Meio period (the end of thefifteenth century), Akiko, who had been a maid in the service of MoriFujiyori, the lord of the castle, escaped with a cat which had been her pet foryears, and then the cat became a wild supernatural monster which terrorizedthe people, finally even preying on infants in the village. The local officialsjoined with the people in attempts to catch it, but with its strange powers ofappearing and disappearing, the swordsmen and archers could find nothingto attack, and men and women went in dread day and night. Then inDecember of the second year of Eisho (1505), priest Yakkoku went up on tothe dais at Hokokuji and drew the picture of a cat, which he displayed to thecongregation with the words: "As I have drawn it, so I kill it with Katzu!, thatthe fears may be removed from the hearts of the people." He gave the shout,and tore to pieces the picture of the cat. On that day a woodcutter in thevalley near the Takuma villa heard a terrible screech; he guided a companyof archers to the upper part of the valley, where they found the body of thecat-monster, as big as a bear-cub, dead on a rock. The people agreed that thishad been the result of the master's Katzu!Terrorism is usually born out of feelings of weakness and despair, combinedwith a conviction that the cause one stands for, whether public or personal, isworth both the inflicting and the suffering of any kind of damage. A world inwhich the faces of power are often large and apparently invulnerable only makesthe strategy more appealing. In this sense terrorism can become a kind of style, amode of behavior that filters down into society itself.In the 1920s and '30s, the French psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan butted headswith the extremely conservative medical societies that dominated almost allaspects of psychoanalytic practice. Realizing the futility of taking on theseauthorities in a conventional way, Lacan developed a style that can fairly bedescribed as terroristic. His sessions with his patients, for example, were oftencut short before the usual fifty minutes were up; they could last any period oftime that he saw fit and were sometimes as brief as ten minutes. This deliberateprovocation to the medical establishment caused a great deal of scandal, settingoff a chain reaction that shook the psychoanalytic community for years. (Thesesessions were also quite terrorizing for the patients, who could never be surewhen Lacan would end them and so were forced to concentrate and make everymoment count--all of which had great therapeutic value, according to Lacan.) Having gained much publicity this way, Lacan kept stirring the pot with