printing shop, promising to lend himthe initial amount that was needed to get the business going. The machines andmaterials would have to come from London, and Keith advised him to go therepersonally to supervise the acquisition. He had contacts there and would bankrollit all.Franklin could hardly believe his good fortune. Only a few months earlier hewas a menial apprentice to his brother. Now, thanks to the generous andenterprising governor, he would soon have his own printing business, andthrough it he could start a newspaper and become a leading voice in the city, allbefore he turned twenty. As he made his plans for London, the money Keith hadpromised as a loan was not forthcoming, but after writing to him a few times,word finally came from the governor’s office not to worry—letters of creditwould be waiting for him once he disembarked in England. And so, without would be waiting for him once he disembarked in England. And so, withoutexplaining to Keimer what he was up to, he quit his job and bought his passagefor the transatlantic journey.When he got to England there were no letters waiting. Feeling there musthave been some kind of miscommunication, he frantically looked in London fora representative of the governor to whom he could explain their agreement. Inhis search he came upon a wealthy merchant from Philadelphia who, hearing hisstory, revealed to him the truth—Governor Keith was a notorious talker. He wasalways promising everything to everyone, trying to impress people with hispower. His enthusiasm for a scheme would rarely last more than a week. He hadno money to lend, and his character was worth about as much as his promises.As Franklin took this all in and considered his current predicament, whatdisturbed him was not that he now found himself in a precarious position—aloneand without money, far from home. There was no place more exciting for ayoung man than London, and he would somehow make his way there. Whatbothered him was how badly he had misread Keith and how naïve he had been.Fortunately, London was teeming with large-scale printing shops, and withina few weeks of his arrival he found a position within one of them. To forgetabout the Keith fiasco he threw himself into the work, quickly impressing hisemployer with his dexterity with the various machines and with his editingskills. He got along well enough with his colleagues, but soon he encountered astrange British custom: five times a day his fellow printers would take a break todrink a pint of beer. It fortified them for the work, or so they said. Every weekFranklin was expected to contribute to the beer fund for those in the room,including himself, but he refused to pay up—he did not like to drink duringworking hours, and the idea that he should give up a part of his hard-earnedwages for others to ruin their health made him angry. He spoke honestly abouthis principles, and they politely accepted his decision.Over the ensuing weeks, however, strange things began to happen: mistakeskept popping up in texts he had