After fiveyears the company was sold and Fuller was fired as president.Now the situation looked bleaker than ever. The family had been living wellin Chicago on his salary, beyond its means. In those five years he had notmanaged to save anything. Winter was approaching and his prospects for workseemed very slim—his reputation was in tatters. One evening he walked alongLake Michigan and thought of his life up until then. He had disappointed his Lake Michigan and thought of his life up until then. He had disappointed hiswife, and he had lost money for his father-in-law and his friends who hadinvested in the enterprise. He was useless at business and a burden to everyone.Finally he decided upon suicide as the best option. He would drown himself inthe lake. He had a good insurance policy, and his wife’s family would take bettercare of her than he had been able to. As he walked toward the water, he mentallyprepared himself for death.Suddenly something stopped him in his tracks—what he would describe lateras a voice, coming from nearby or perhaps from within him. It said, “From nowon you need never await temporal attestation to your thought. You think thetruth. You do not have the right to eliminate yourself. You do not belong to you.You belong to Universe. Your significance will remain forever obscure to you,but you may assume that you are fulfilling your role if you apply yourself toconverting your experiences to the highest advantage of others.” Never havingheard voices before, Fuller could only imagine it as something real. Stunned bythese words, he turned away from the water and headed home.On the way there he began to ponder the words and to reassess his life, nowin a different light. Perhaps what he had perceived moments earlier as hismistakes were not mistakes at all. He had tried to fit into a world (business) inwhich he did not belong. The world was telling him this if he only listened. TheStockade experience was not all a waste—he had learned some invaluablelessons about human nature. He should have no regrets. The truth was that hewas different. In his mind he imagined all kinds of inventions—new kinds ofcars, houses, building structures—that reflected his unusual perceptual skills. Itstruck him, as he looked around at row after row of apartment housing on hisway back, that people suffered more from sameness, from the inability to thinkof doing things differently, than from non-conformity.He swore that from that moment on he would listen to nothing except hisown experience, his own voice. He would create an alternative way of makingthings that would open people’s eyes to new possibilities. The money wouldeventually come. Whenever he thought of money first, disaster followed. Hewould take care of his family, but they would have to live frugally for themoment.Over the years, Fuller kept to this promise. The pursuit of his peculiar ideasled to the design of inexpensive and energy-efficient forms of transportation andshelter (the Dymaxion car and Dymaxion house), and to the invention of thegeodesic dome—a whole new form