provides seed funding, advice, and mentorship toyoung tech entrepreneurs. It has since become one of the most successful tech incubators in the world. Its portfolio of over two hundred companies is currentlyworth more than $4 billion, and includes DropBox, Reddit, loopt, and AirBnB.He has published two books: On Lisp (1993) about the computer programminglanguage, and Hackers and Painters (2004). His online essays can be viewed atPaulGraham.com.Temple Grandin was born in 1947, in Boston, Massachusetts. At the age ofthree she was diagnosed with autism. Through special mentoring and work witha speech therapist, she slowly mastered the language skills that allowed her todevelop intellectually and to attend various schools, including a high school forgifted children, where she excelled in science. Grandin went on to receive abachelor’s degree in psychology from Franklin Pierce College, a master’s degreein animal science from Arizona State University, and a doctorate in animalscience from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. After graduation,she worked as a designer of livestock-handling facilities. Half the cattle in theUnited States are handled by equipment she has designed. Her work in this areais devoted to making more humane, stress-free environments for animals inslaughterhouses. For this purpose, she has created a series of guidelines forhandling cattle and pigs at meat plants that are now used by companies such asMcDonald’s. Grandin has become a popular lecturer on animal rights and onautism. She has written several best-selling books, including Thinking inPictures: My Life with Autism (1996), Animals in Translation: Using theMysteries of Autism to Decode Animal Behavior (2005), and The Way I See It: APersonal Look at Autism and Aspergers (2009). In 2010 she was the subject ofan HBO biopic about her life, titled Temple Grandin. She is currently a professorof animal science at Colorado State University.Yoky Matsuoka was born in 1972, in Tokyo, Japan. As a promising youngtennis player, Matsuoka came to the United States to attend a high-level tennisacademy. She ended up staying, completing her high school studies in the States,and then attending the University of California at Berkeley, where she received aBS in electrical engineering and computer science. She received her PhD inelectrical engineering and artificial intelligence from MIT. While at MIT shewas the chief engineer at Barrett Technology, where she developed a robotichand that became an industry standard. She has served as a professor of roboticsand mechanical engineering at Carnegie Mellon University and professor ofcomputer science and engineering at the University of Washington at Seattle. Atthe University of Washington, Matsuoka created a new field, which she called“neurobotics,” and established the university’s neurobotics laboratory, where robotic models and virtual environments are used to understand thebiomechanics and neuromuscular control of human limbs. In 2007, Matsuokawas awarded a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, or “genius grant.” She was acofounder of Google’s X division, where she served as Head of Innovation.Matsuoka is currently the vice president of technology at Nest Labs, a greentechnology firm that develops energy-efficient consumer products such as theNest Learning Thermostat.Vilayanur S. Ramachandran was born in 1951, in Madras, India. He trained asa doctor, then switched