on it.In the end, the ability to alter our perspective is a function of ourimagination. We have to learn how to imagine more possibilities than wegenerally consider, being as loose and radical with this process as we can. Thispertains as much to inventors and businesspeople as it does to artists. Look at thecase of Henry Ford, a highly creative thinker in his own right. In the early stagesof the manufacturing of automobiles, Henry Ford imagined a whole differentkind of business than existed at the time. He wanted to mass-produce theautomobile, helping to create the consumer culture he felt was coming. But themen in his factories would average some twelve and a half hours to manufacture men in his factories would average some twelve and a half hours to manufacturea single automobile, which was far too slow to achieve his goal.One day, trying to think of ways to speed up production, Ford watched hismen at work as they scrambled around as fast as they could to assemble anautomobile as it stood still on a platform. Ford did not focus on the tools thatcould be improved, or how to get the men to move faster, or the need to hiremore workers—the kinds of small changes that would not have altered thedynamic enough for mass-production. Instead, he imagined somethingcompletely different. In his mind, he suddenly saw the cars moving and the menstanding still, each worker doing a small portion of the job as the car movedfrom position to position. Within days he tried this out and realized what he wason to. By the time it was fully instituted in 1914, the Ford factory could nowproduce a car in ninety minutes. Over the years, he would speed up thismiraculous saving of time.As you work to free up your mind and give it the power to alter itsperspective, remember the following: the emotions we experience at any timehave an inordinate influence on how we perceive the world. If we feel afraid, wetend to see more of the potential dangers in some action. If we feel particularlybold, we tend to ignore the potential risks. What you must do then is not onlyalter your mental perspective, but reverse your emotional one as well. Forinstance, if you are experiencing a lot of resistance and setbacks in your work,try to see this as in fact something that is quite positive and productive. Thesedifficulties will make you tougher and more aware of the flaws you need tocorrect. In physical exercise, resistance is a way to make the body stronger, andit is the same with the mind. Play a similar reversal on good fortune—seeing thepotential dangers of becoming soft, addicted to attention, and so forth. Thesereversals will free up the imagination to see more possibilities, which will affectwhat you do. If you see setbacks as opportunities, you are more likely to makethat a reality.E. REVERT TO PRIMAL FORMS OF INTELLIGENCEAs discussed in the introduction (see page 6), our most primitive ancestorsdeveloped various forms of intelligence that predated the invention of language,which