constant alternation between the uncanny and the banal, thehidden and the obvious.Adapting Hannibal's method to your own daily battles will bring you untoldpower. Using your knowledge of your enemies' psychology and way of thinking,you must calculate your opening moves to be what they least expect. The line ofleast expectation is the line of least resistance; people cannot defend themselvesagainst what they cannot foresee. With less resistance in your path, the progressyou make will inflate their impression of your power; Hannibal's small armyseemed to the Romans much larger than it really was. Once they come to expectsome extraordinary maneuver on your part, hit them with the ordinary. Establisha reputation for the unconventional and you set your opponents on their heels:knowing to anticipate the unexpected is not the same thing as knowing what theunexpected will be. Before long your opponents will give way to your reputationalone. 2. In 1962, Sonny Liston became the heavyweight boxing champion of the worldby defeating Floyd Patterson. Shortly afterward he turned up to watch a younghotshot on the scene, Cassius Clay, take on and beat rather decisively the veteranArchie Moore. After the fight, Liston paid a visit to Clay's dressing room. He puthis arm around the boy's shoulder--at twenty, Clay was ten years younger thanListon--and told him, "Take care, kid. I'm gonna need you. But I'm gonna haveto beat you like I'm your daddy." Liston was the biggest, baddest fighter in theworld, and to those who understood the sport, he seemed invincible. But Listonrecognized Clay as a boxer just crazy enough to want to fight him down theroad. It was best to instill a touch of fear in him now.Chaos--where brilliant dreams are born. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.The fear did not take: as Liston had guessed he would, Clay soon began toclamor for a fight with the champion and to brag to one and all that he wouldbeat him in eight rounds. On television and radio shows, he taunted the olderboxer: maybe it was Liston who was afraid to take on Cassius Clay. Liston triedto ignore the upstart; "If they ever make the fight," he said, "I'll be locked up formurder." He considered Clay too pretty, even effeminate, to be a heavyweightchampion.Time passed, and Clay's antics provoked a desire for the fight in the public:most people wanted to see Liston beat the daylights out of Clay and shut him up.Late in 1963 the two men met to sign on for a championship fight in MiamiBeach the following February. Afterward Clay told reporters, "I'm not afraid ofListon. He's an old man. I'll give him talking lessons and boxing lessons. Whathe needs most is falling-down lessons." As the fight grew closer, Clay's rhetoricbecame still more insulting and shrill.Of the sportswriters polled on the upcoming fight, most of them predictedthat Clay would not be able to walk on his own after it was over. Some worriedthat he would be permanently injured. "I guess it's quite hard to tell Clay not tofight this monster now," said the