and so she began totake art classes. But the art she produced in high school did not seem to connectto that grittier side of her character. It came too easily; her work was too glib andsuperficial; something was lacking.In 1986, still uncertain of her direction in life, she entered FloridaInternational University, in Miami. Following her high school inclinations, shetook a sculpture class. But working in clay, with its softness and ease ofmanipulation, gave her the same feeling she’d had in high school of makingthings that were merely artificial and pretty. Then one day, spending time in thesculpture building, she noticed some artists working in metal, crafting large-scale pieces. These sheets of steel had a visceral effect upon her unlike any otherartwork she had seen, and she felt in some way that this was the material thathad been meant for her all along. It was gray and heavy and resistant, requiringgreat effort to shape it. The properties of steel corresponded to the sense ofresiliency and power that she had always felt inside herself, despite her petitesize, and that she had always wanted to express.And so she began to apply herself feverishly to her newfound medium. Towork in metal required firing up the foundry and using acetylene torches. Thetropical heat of Miami could make such labor intensely uncomfortable duringthe daytime hours, so she began to work on her sculptures exclusively at night.This led to an unusual schedule—starting at nine, working until two or three in This led to an unusual schedule—starting at nine, working until two or three inthe morning, then sleeping through a good part of the next day. Besides thecooler air, working at night had other advantages—with few people around, thestudio was quite peaceful and conducive to serious work. She could focusdeeply. She could experiment with her pieces, make mistakes that no one wouldsee. She could be fearless and take chances.Slowly Fernández began to take command of the medium, and in making hersculptures, she felt like she was forging and transforming herself. She wasinterested in creating pieces that were large and impressive, but to make suchwork she had to devise her own method. She would design the pieces on paper,but would work on them in smaller sections that she could manage by herself.Then, in the quiet of her studio, she would assemble the sculptures. Soon herpieces began to be displayed within the department and on campus.Almost everyone was quite impressed by her work. Standing in the brightMiami sunshine, her enormous steel sculptures conveyed that sense of power shehad always felt within her. But there was another response to her pieces thatsurprised her. Because few people had seen her at work, it appeared that thesesculptures flowed out of her effortlessly—as if she had some unusual gift. Thisdrew attention to her personality. Sculpture was a largely male domain thattended to attract the most macho male artists. As she was one of the few femaleartists working in heavy steel, people naturally projected onto her all kinds ofpreconceptions and fantasies. The discrepancy between her