career path based on what peers and parentstell you, or on what seems lucrative. If you lose contact with this inner calling,you can have some success in life, but eventually your lack of true desire catchesup with you. Your work becomes mechanical. You come to live for leisure andimmediate pleasures. In this way you become increasingly passive, and nevermove past the first phase. You may grow frustrated and depressed, neverrealizing that the source of it is your alienation from your own creative potential.Before it is too late you must find your way to your inclination, exploitingthe incredible opportunities of the age that you have been born into. Knowingthe critical importance of desire and of your emotional connection to your work,which are the keys to mastery, you can in fact make the passivity of these timeswork in your favor and serve as a motivating device in two important ways.First, you must see your attempt at attaining mastery as something extremelynecessary and positive. The world is teeming with problems, many of them ofour own creation. To solve them will require a tremendous amount of effort andcreativity. Relying on genetics, technology, magic, or being nice and natural willnot save us. We require the energy not only to address practical matters, but alsoto forge new institutions and orders that fit our changed circumstances. We mustcreate our own world or we will die from inaction. We need to find our wayback to the concept of mastery that defined us as a species so many millions ofyears ago. This is not mastery for the purpose of dominating nature or otherpeople, but for determining our fate. The passive ironic attitude is not cool orromantic, but pathetic and destructive. You are setting an example of what canbe achieved as a Master in the modern world. You are contributing to the mostimportant cause of all—the survival and prosperity of the human race, in a timeof stagnation.Second, you must convince yourself of the following: people get the mindand quality of brain that they deserve through their actions in life. Despite thepopularity of genetic explanations for our behavior, recent discoveries inneuroscience are overturning long-held beliefs that the brain is geneticallyhardwired. Scientists are demonstrating the degree to which the brain is actuallyquite plastic—how our thoughts determine our mental landscape. They areexploring the relationship of willpower to physiology, how profoundly the mindcan affect our health and functionality. It is possible that more and more will bediscovered about how deeply we create the various patterns of our lives throughcertain mental operations—how we are truly responsible for so much of what certain mental operations—how we are truly responsible for so much of whathappens to us.People who are passive create a mental landscape that is rather barren.Because of their limited experiences and action, all kinds of connections in thebrain die off from lack of use. Pushing against the passive trend of these times,you must work to see how far you can extend control of your circumstances andcreate the kind of mind you desire—not through drugs but