laws of physics, and so on—all of thisshould continually fill us with awe. Our skeptical, cynical attitudes can actuallycut us off from so many interesting questions, and from reality itself.After we pass through a rigorous apprenticeship and begin to flex ourcreative muscles, we cannot help but feel satisfaction in what we have learnedand how far we have progressed. We naturally begin to take for granted certainideas we have learned and developed. Slowly, we stop asking the same kinds ofquestions that plagued us earlier on. We already know the answers. We feel everso superior. Unknown to ourselves, the mind slowly narrows and tightens ascomplacency creeps into the soul, and although we may have achieved publicacclaim for our past work, we stifle our own creativity and never get it back.Fight this downhill tendency as much as you can by upholding the value ofactive wonder. Constantly remind yourself of how little you truly know, and ofhow mysterious the world remains.Conservatism: If you gain any kind of attention or success for your work inthis phase, you face the great danger of creeping conservatism. This dangercomes in several forms. You begin to fall in love with the ideas and strategiesthat worked for you in the past. Why risk changing your style in midstream, or adapting a new approach to your work? Better to stick to the tried and true. Youalso will have a reputation to protect—better to not say or do anything that mightrock the boat. You become subtly addicted to the material comforts you haveacquired and before you know it, you uphold ideas that you think you believe in,but that really are tied to your need to please the audience or your sponsors, orwhomever.Creativity is by its nature an act of boldness and rebellion. You are notaccepting the status quo or conventional wisdom. You are playing with the veryrules you have learned, experimenting and testing the boundaries. The world isdying for bolder ideas, for people who are not afraid to speculate and investigate.Creeping conservatism will narrow your searches, tether you to comfortableideas, and create a downward spiral—as the creative spark leaves you, you willfind yourself clutching even more forcefully to dead ideas, past successes, andthe need to maintain your status. Make creativity rather than comfort your goaland you will ensure far more success for the future.Dependency: In the Apprenticeship Phase you relied upon mentors andthose above you to supply you with the necessary standards of judgment for yourfield. But if you are not careful, you will carry this need for approval over intothe next phase. Instead of relying on the Master for evaluation of your work, you—ever insecure about your work and how it will be judged—come to rely on theopinions of the public. It is not that you must ignore these judgments, but thatyou must first work hard to develop internal standards and a high degree ofindependence. You have the capacity to see your own work with some distance;when the public reacts, you can distinguish between what is worth payingattention to and what