The orders were a little vague, and Grant was not informed of them,but McClernand would make the best of them.McClernand quickly recruited more soldiers than he had promised Lincolnhe would. He sent his recruits to Memphis, Tennessee, where he would soon jointhem to march on Vicksburg. But when he arrived in Memphis, in late December 1862, the thousands of men he had recruited were not there. A telegram fromGrant--dated ten days earlier and waiting for him in Memphis--informed himthat the general was planning to attack Vicksburg. If McClernand arrived intime, he would lead the attack; if not, his men would be led by General WilliamTecumseh Sherman.McClernand was livid. The situation had clearly been orchestrated to make itimpossible for him to arrive in time to lead his own recruits; Grant must havefigured out his plan. The general's polite telegram covering his bases made thewhole affair doubly infuriating. Well, McClernand would show him: he wouldhurry downriver, catch up with Sherman, take over the campaign, and humiliateGrant by winning the credit and honor for capturing Vicksburg.McClernand did catch up with Sherman, on January 2, 1863, andimmediately assumed command of the army. He made an effort to be charmingto Sherman, who, he learned, had been planning to raid Confederate outpostsaround Vicksburg to soften up the approach to the fort. The idea was heaven-sentfor McClernand: he would take over these raids, win battles without Grant'sname over his, earn himself some publicity, and make his command of theVicksburg campaign a fait accompli. He followed Sherman's plan to the letter,and the campaign was a success.At this triumphant point, out of the blue, McClernand received a telegramfrom Grant: he was to halt operations and wait for a meeting with the general. Itwas time for McClernand to play his trump card, the president; he wrote Lincolnrequesting more explicit orders, and specifically an independent command, buthe got no reply. And now vague doubts began to trouble McClernand's peace ofmind. Sherman and other officers seemed cool; somehow he had rubbed themthe wrong way. Perhaps they were conspiring with Grant to get rid of him. Grantsoon appeared on the scene with detailed plans for a campaign against Vicksburgunder his own direction. McClernand would lead a corps, which, however, wasstationed at the faraway outpost of Helena, Arkansas. Grant made a point oftreating him politely, but everything together added up to a humiliating setback.How to be one up--how to make the other man feel that something has gonewrong, however slightly. The Lifeman is never caddish himself, but howsimply and certainly, often, he can make the other man feel a cad, and overprolonged periods.THE COMPLETE UPMANSHIP, STEPHEN POTTER, 1950Now McClernand exploded, writing letter after letter to Lincoln and Stantonto remind them of their earlier rapport and of the support they had once given him, and complaining bitterly about Grant. After days of fuming and writing,McClernand finally received a response from Lincoln--and, to his shock anddismay, the president had somehow turned against him. There had been toomany family quarrels among his generals, wrote Lincoln; for the