For the provident there are no mischances and for the careful no narrow escapes. W e must not put oﬀ thought till we are up to the chin in mire. Mature reﬂection can get over the most formidable diﬃculty . The pillow is a silent Sibyl, and it is better to sleep on things beforehand than lie awake about them afterwards. Many act ﬁrst and then think afterwards--that is, they think less of consequences than of excuses: others think neither before nor after. The whole of life should be one course of thought how not to miss the right path. Rumination and foresight enable one to determine the line of life. clii Never have a Companion who casts you in the Shade. The more he does so, the less desirable a companion he is. The more he excels in quality the more in repute: he will always play ﬁrst ﬁddle and you second. If you get any consideration, it is only his leavings. The moon shines bright alone among the stars: when the sun rises she becomes either invisible or imperceptible. Never join one that eclipses you, but rather one who sets you in a brighter light. By this means the cunning Fabula in Martial was able to appear beautiful and brilliant, owing to the ugliness and disorder of her companions. But one should as little imperil oneself by an evil companion as pay honour to another at the cost of one's own credit. When you are on the way to fortune associate with the eminent; when arrived, with the mediocre. cliii Beware of entering where there is a great Gap to be ﬁlled. But if you do it be sure to surpass your predecessor; merely to equal him requires twice his worth. As it is a ﬁne stroke to arrange that our successor shall cause us to be wished back, so it is policy to see that our predecessor does not eclipse us. To ﬁll a great gap is diﬃcult, for the past always seems best, and to equal the predecessor is not enough, since he has the right of ﬁrst possession. Y ou must therefore possess additional claims to oust the other from his hold on public opinion. cliv Do not Believe, or Like, lightly . Maturity of mind is best shown in slow belief. Lying is the usual thing; then let belief be unusual. He that is lightly led away , soon falls into contempt. At the same time there is no necessity to betray your doubts in the good faith of others, for this adds insult to discourtesy , since you make out your informant to be either deceiver or deceived. Nor is this the only evil: want of belief is the mark of the liar, who suﬀers from two failings: he neither believes nor is believed. Suspension of judgment is prudent in a hearer: the speaker can appeal to his original source of in-formation. There is a similar kind of imprudence in liking too easily