the true sense are to build a solidfoundation for future expansion, to make you more secure, to increase yourpower. When Israel seized the Sinai Desert during the Six-Day War in 1967,what seemed to make sense was creating a kind of buffer zone between itself andEgypt. In fact, this just meant more territory to patrol and control, and it createda cause to motivate enduring hostility in the Egyptian populace. The Sinai wasalso vulnerable to surprise attack, which is what ended up happening in the YomKippur War of 1973. Since holding on to the desert, though seductive, ultimatelydisserved the needs of security, in the terms of grand strategy it was probably amistake. It is sometimes hard to know what the long-term effects of achieving agoal will be, but the more seriously and realistically you examine thepossibilities downwind, the less likely you are to miscalculate. Widen your perspective. Grand strategy is a function of vision, of seeingfurther in time and space than the enemy does. The process of foresight isunnatural: we can only ever live in the present, which is the ground for ourconsciousness, and our subjective experiences and desires narrow the scope ofour vision--they are like a prison we inhabit. Your task as a grand strategist is toforce yourself to widen your view, to take in more of the world around you, tosee things for what they are and for how they may play out in the future, not forhow you wish them to be. Every event has a reason, a causal chain ofrelationships that made it happen; you have to dig deep into that reality, instead of seeing only the surfaces of things. The closer you get to objectivity, the betteryour strategies and the easier the path to your goals.THE WILD BOAR AND THE FOXA wild boar was sharpening his tusks on a tree trunk one day. A fox asked himwhy he did this when there was neither huntsman nor danger threatening him."I do so for a good reason," he replied. "For if I am suddenly surprised bydanger I wouldn't have the time to sharpen my tusks. But now I will find themready to do their duty."The fable shows that it is no good waiting until danger comes to be ready. FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C.You can take a step in this direction by always trying to look at the worldthrough the eyes of other people--including, most definitely, your enemy--beforeengaging in war. Your own cultural preconceptions are a major hindrance toseeing the world objectively. Looking through other people's eyes is not aquestion of political correctness or of some soft, hazy sensitivity; it makes yourstrategies more effective. During the Vietnam War, the North Vietnameseintensely studied the American cultural scene. They looked for shifts in publicopinion and strained to understand the U.S. political system and the socialeffects of television. American strategists, on the other hand, revealed anabsolutely minimal understanding of the alien cultures of Vietnam--whether theSouth Vietnamese culture they were supporting or the North Vietnamese culturethey were trying to fight. Blinded by their