writer, and stars understood the completeness of his dominationonly when the film was finished.To gain control of any project, you must be willing to make time your ally. Ifyou start out with complete control, you sap people's spirit and stir up envy andresentment. So begin by generating the illusion that you're all working togetheron a team effort; then slowly nibble away. If in the process you make peopleangry, do not worry. That's just a sign that their emotions are engaged, whichmeans they can be manipulated.Finally, the use of the piecemeal strategy to disguise your aggressiveintentions is invaluable in these political times, but in masking yourmanipulations you can never go too far. So when you take a bite, even a smallone, make a show of acting out of self-defense. It also helps to appear as theunderdog. Give the impression your objectives are limited by taking a substantialpause between bites--exploiting people's short attention spans--whileproclaiming to one and all that you are a person of peace. In fact, it would be theheight of wisdom to make your bite a little larger upon occasion and then givingback some of what you have taken. People see only your generosity and yourlimited actions, not the steadily increasing empire you are amassing. Authority: To multiply small successes is precisely to build one treasureafter another. In time one becomes rich without realizing how it has comeabout.--Frederick the Great (1712-1786)REVERSALShould you see or suspect that you yourself are being attacked bite by bite, youronly counterstrategy is to prevent any further progress or faits accomplis. Aquick and forceful response will usually be enough to discourage the nibblers,who often resort to this strategy out of weakness and cannot afford many battles.If they are tougher and more ambitious, like Frederick the Great, that forcefulresponse becomes more crucial still. Letting them get away with their bites,however small, is too dangerous--nip them in the bud. PENETRATE THEIR MINDSCOMMUNICATION STRATEGIESCommunication is a kind of war, its field of battle the resistant and defensiveminds of the people you want to influence. The goal is to advance, to penetratetheir defenses and occupy their minds. Anything else is ineffectivecommunication, self-indulgent talk. Learn to infiltrate your ideas behind enemylines, sending messages through little details, luring people into coming to theconclusions you desire and into thinking they've gotten there by themselves.Some you can trick by cloaking your extraordinary ideas in ordinary forms;others, more resistant and dull, must be awoken with extreme language thatbristles with newness. At all cost, avoid language that is static, preachy, andoverly personal. Make your words a spark for action, not passive contemplation.VISCERAL COMMUNICATIONTo work with the film director Alfred Hitchcock for the first time was generallya disconcerting experience. He did not like to talk much on the sets of hismovies--just the occasional sardonic and witty remark. Was he deliberatelysecretive? Or just quiet? And how could someone direct a film, which entailsordering so many people about, without talking a lot and giving explicitinstructions?This peculiarity of Hitchcock's was most troublesome for his actors. Manyof them were used to