Memphis tothe north.Grant, however, was a stubborn man. As the winter dragged on, he triedevery kind of maneuver, with nothing working--until, on the moonless night ofApril 16, Confederate scouts reported a Union flotilla of transport ships andgunboats, lights off, trying to make a run past the batteries at Vicksburg. Thecannons roared, but somehow the ships got past them with minimal damage. Thenext few weeks saw several more runs down the river. At the same time, Unionforces on the western side of the river were reported heading south. Now it wasclear: Grant would use the transport ships he had sneaked past Vicksburg tocross the Mississippi some thirty miles downriver. Then he would march on thefortress from the south.Pemberton called for reinforcements, but in truth he was not overlyconcerned. Even if Grant got thousands of men across the river, what could hedo once there? If he moved north toward Vicksburg, the Confederacy could sendarmies from Jackson and points south to take him from the flank and rear. Defeatin this corridor would be a disaster, for Grant would have no line of retreat. Hehad committed himself to a foolhardy venture. Pemberton waited patiently forhis next move.Grant did cross the river south of Vicksburg, and in a few days his army wasmoving northeast, heading for the rail line from Vicksburg to Jackson. This was his most audacious move so far: if he were successful, he would cut Vicksburgoff from its lifeline. But Grant's army, no different from any other, needed linesof communication and supply. These lines would have to connect to a base onthe eastern side of the river, which Grant had indeed established at the town ofGrand Gulf. All Pemberton had to do was send forces south from Vicksburg todestroy or even just threaten Grand Gulf, endangering Grant's supply lines. Hewould be forced to retreat south or risk being cut off. It was a game of chess thatPemberton could not lose.And so, as the Northern general maneuvered his armies with speed towardthe rail line between Jackson and Vicksburg, Pemberton moved on Grand Gulf.To Pemberton's utter dismay, Grant ignored him. Indeed, so far from dealingwith the threat to his rear, he pushed straight on to Jackson, taking it on May 14.Instead of relying on supply lines to feed his army, he plundered the area's richfarmlands. More, he moved so swiftly and changed direction so fluidly thatPemberton could not tell which part of his army was the front, rear, or flank.Rather than struggle to defend lines of communication or supply, Grant keptnone. No one had ever seen an army behave in such a manner, breaking everyrule in the military playbook.A few days later, with Jackson under his control, Grant wheeled his troopstoward Vicksburg. Pemberton rushed his men back from Grand Gulf to block theUnion general, but it was too late: beaten at the Battle of Champion Hill, he wasforced back into the fortress, where his army was quickly besieged by the Unionforces. On July 4, Pemberton surrendered Vicksburg, a blow the South wouldnever recover from.InterpretationWe