of Ares, and by the two-headed watchdog Orthrus--formerly Atlas' property--born of Typhoon andEchidne.... On his arrival, [Hercules] ascended Mount Abas. The dog Orthrusrushed at him, barking, but Heracles' club struck him lifeless; and Eurytion,Geryon's herdsman, hurrying to Orthrus' aid, died in the same manner.Heracles then proceeded to drive away the cattle. Menoetes, who waspasturing the cattle of Hades near by--but Heracles had left these untouched--took the news to Geryon. Challenged to battle, Heracles ran to Geryon'sflank and shot him sideways through all three bodies with a single arrow....As Hera hastened to Geryon's assistance, Heracles wounded her with anarrow in the right breast, and she fled. Thus he won the cattle, without eitherdemand or payment.THE GREEK MYTHS, VOL. 2, ROBERT GRAVES, 1955Life is full of hostility--some of it overt, some clever and under-handed.Conflict is inevitable; you will never have total peace. Instead of imagining youcan avoid these clashes of will, accept them and know that the way you deal withthem will decide your success in life. What good is it to win little battles, tosucceed in pushing people around here and there, if in the long run you createsilent enemies who will sabotage you later? At all cost you must gain control ofthe impulse to fight your opponents directly. Instead occupy their flank. Disarmthem and make them your ally; you can decide later whether to keep them onyour side or to exact revenge. Taking the fight out of people through strategicacts of kindness, generosity, and charm will clear your path, helping you to saveenergy for the fights you cannot avoid. Find their flank--the support peoplecrave, the kindness they will respond to, the favor that will disarm them. In thepolitical world we live in, the flank is the path to power.Your gentleness shall force More than your force move us to gentleness.AS YOU LIKE IT, WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, 1564-1616Let us see if by moderation we can win all hearts and secure a lasting victory,since by cruelty others have been unable to escape from hatred and maintain their victory for any length of time.... This is a new way of conquering, tostrengthen one's position by kindness and generosity.--Julius Caesar (100-44 B.C.)KEYS TO WARFAREThe conflict and struggle we go through today are astounding--far greater thanthose faced by our ancestors. In war the passages of armies are marked witharrows on maps. If we had to map the battles of our own daily lives, we woulddraw thousands of those arrows, a constant traffic of moves and maneuvers--notto speak of the arrows actually hitting us, the people trying to persuade us of onething or another, to move us in a particular direction, to bend us to their will,their product, their cause.Because so many people are constantly shifting for power, our social worldbecomes blanketed in barely disguised aggression. In this situation it requirestime and patience to be indirect; in the daily rush to move and influence people,the subtle approach is too difficult and time-consuming, so people tend to takethe direct route to what they want. To convince us of