bring his twelve-year-old son Benjamin intohis lucrative, family-run candle-making business in Boston as an apprentice. Hisidea was that after a seven-year apprenticeship and a little experience, Benjaminwould take over the business. But Benjamin had other ideas. He threatened torun away to sea if his father did not give him the choice of where he couldapprentice. The father had already lost another son who had run away, and so herelented. To the father’s surprise, his son chose to work in an older brother’srecently opened printing business. Such a business would mean harder work andthe apprenticeship would last nine instead of seven years. Also, the printing the apprenticeship would last nine instead of seven years. Also, the printingbusiness was notoriously fickle, and it was quite a risk to bank one’s future on it.But that was his choice, his father decided. Let him learn the hard way.What young Benjamin had not told his father was that he was determined tobecome a writer. Most of the work in the shop would involve manual labor andoperating machines, but every now and then he would be asked to proofread andcopyedit a pamphlet or text. And there would always be new books around.Several years into the process, he discovered that some of his favorite writingcame from the English newspapers the shop would reprint. He asked to be theone to oversee the printing of such articles, giving him the chance to study thesetexts in detail and teach himself how to imitate their style in his own work. Overthe years he managed to turn this into a most efficient apprenticeship for writing,with the added benefit of having learned the printing business well.——After graduating from the Zurich Polytechnic in 1900, the twenty-one-year-oldAlbert Einstein found his job prospects extremely meager. He had graduatednear the bottom of the class, almost certainly nullifying any chance to obtain ateaching position. Happy to be away from the university, he now planned toinvestigate, on his own, certain problems in physics that had haunted him forseveral years. It would be a self-apprenticeship in theorizing and thoughtexperiments. But in the meantime, he would have to make a living. He had beenoffered a job in his father’s dynamo business in Milan as an engineer, but suchwork would not leave him any free time. A friend could land him a well-paidposition in an insurance company, but that would stultify his brain and sap hisenergy for thinking.Then, a year later, another friend mentioned a job opening up in the SwissPatent Office in Bern. The pay was not great, the position was at the bottom, thehours were long, and the work consisted of the rather mundane task of lookingover patent applications, but Einstein leaped at the chance. It was everything hewanted. His task would be to analyze the validity of patent applications, many ofwhich involved aspects of science that interested him. The applications would belike little puzzles or thought experiments; he could try to visualize how the ideaswould actually translate into inventions. Working on them would sharpen hisreasoning powers. After several months