control: they complain, act defensiveand paranoid, or show the arrogance they try so hard to conceal. For a momentthe mask falls.When you sense you have colleagues who may prove dangerous--or areactually already plotting something--you must try first to gather intelligence onthem. Look at their everyday behavior, their past actions, their mistakes, forsigns of their flaws. With this knowledge in hand, you are ready for the game ofone-upmanship.Begin by doing something to prick the underlying wound, creating doubt,insecurity, and anxiety. It might be an offhand comment or something that yourvictims sense as a challenge to their position within the court. Your goal is not tochallenge them blatantly, though, but to get under their skin: they feel attackedbut are not sure why or how. The result is a vague, troubling sensation. A feelingof inferiority creeps in.You then follow up with secondary actions that feed their doubts. Here it isoften best to work covertly, getting other people, the media, or simple rumor todo the job for you. The endgame is deceptively simple: having piled up enoughself-doubt to trigger a reaction, you stand back and let the target self-destruct.You must avoid the temptation to gloat or get in a last blow; at this point, in fact,it is best to act friendly, even offering dubious assistance and advice. Yourtargets' reaction will be an overreaction. Either they will lash out, make anembarrassing mistake, or reveal themselves too much, or they will get overlydefensive and try too hard to please others, working all too obviously to secure their position and validate their self-esteem. Defensive people unconsciouslypush people away.At this point your opening action, especially if it is only subtly aggressive,will be forgotten. What will stand out will be your rivals' overreaction andhumiliation. Your hands are clean, your reputation unsullied. Their loss ofposition is your gain; you are one up and they are one down. If you had attackedthem directly, your advantage would be temporary or nonexistent; in fact, yourpolitical position would be precarious: your pathetic, suffering rivals would winsympathy as your victims, and attention would focus on you as responsible fortheir undoing. Instead they must fall on their swords. You may have given thema little help, but to whatever extent possible in their own eyes, and certainly ineveryone else's, they must have only themselves to blame. That will make theirdefeat doubly galling and doubly effective.To win without your victim's knowing how it happened or just what youhave done is the height of unconventional warfare. Master the art and not onlywill you find it easier to fight on two fronts at the same time, but your path to thehighest ranks will be that much smoother.Never interfere with an enemy that is in the process of committing suicide.--Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821)HISTORICAL EXAMPLES1. John A. McClernand (1812-1900) watched with envy as his friend and fellowlawyer Abraham Lincoln rose to the U.S. presidency. McClernand, a lawyer andcongressman from Springfield, Illinois, had had this ambition himself. Shortlyafter the outbreak of the Civil War, in 1861, he resigned his congressional seat toaccept a commission