their friend and protector, the rare leader sympathetic to theircause. It was even rumored that he had made contacts with various men of theleft and had intrigued with them.The czar went further with his idea: now he wanted a conference of themajor powers to discuss the future of Spain, Naples, and Europe itself. TheEnglish foreign minister, Lord Castlereagh, wrote letter after letter trying todissuade him of the need for the meeting. It was never wise to meddle in theaffairs of other countries, Castlereagh said; Alexander should leave England tohelp stop the unrest in Spain, its close ally, while Austria did the same forNaples. Other ministers and rulers wrote to Alexander as well, using similar arguments. It was critical to show a united front against his plan. Yet one man--the Austrian foreign minister, Prince Klemens von Metternich--responded to theczar in a much different fashion, and it was shocking to say the least.Metternich was the most powerful and respected minister in Europe. Thequintessential realist, he was always slow to take bold action or to involveAustria in any kind of adventure; security and order were his primary concerns.He was a conservative, a man who believed in the virtues of the status quo. Ifchange had to come, it should come slowly. But Metternich was also somethingof an enigma--an elegant courtier, he spoke little yet always seemed to get hisway. Now not only was he supporting Alexander's call for a conference, but healso seemed open to the czar's other ideas. Perhaps he had undergone a changeof heart and was moving to the left in his later years? In any event, he personallyorganized the conference for October of that year in the Austrian-held city ofTroppau, in the modern-day Czech Republic.Alexander was delighted: with Metternich on his side, he could realize hisambitions and then some. When he arrived in Troppau for the conference,however, the representatives of the other powers in attendance were less thanfriendly. The French and the Prussians were cool; Castlereagh had refused tocome altogether. Feeling somewhat isolated, Alexander was delighted againwhen Metternich proposed they hold private meetings to discuss the czar's ideas.For several days, and for hours on end, they holed themselves up together in aroom. The czar did most of the talking; Metternich listened with his usualattentive air, agreeing and nodding. The czar, whose thinking was somewhatvague, strained to explain his vision of Europe as best he could, and the need forthe leaders at the conference to display their moral unity. He could not help butfeel frustrated at his inability to make his ideas more specific.Several days into these discussions, Metternich finally confessed to the czarthat he, too, saw a moral danger brewing in Europe. Godless revolution was thescourge of the time; giving in to the radical spirit, showing any sign ofcompromise, would eventually lead to destruction at the hands of these satanicforces. During the Troppau conference, a mutiny had broken out in a regiment ofRussian guards; Metternich warned Alexander that this was the first symptom ofa revolutionary infection attacking Russia itself. Thank God