the novelunremittingly, but as he did so, something strange happened—the book keptexpanding in size and scope, one volume after the next. His method of workingwas partially responsible for this increase. He had collected over the yearsthousands of bits of stories, characters, lessons on life, laws of psychology thathe slowly pieced together in the novel, like tiles of a mosaic. He could notforesee the end.And as the book grew in size, it suddenly assumed a different form—real lifeand the novel became inextricably interwoven. When he needed a new character,a wealthy debutante for instance, he would hunt down her equivalent in societyand get himself invited to balls and soirées where he could study her. Phrasesshe used would find their way into the book. One evening, he reserved severalboxes at the theater for his friends. In these boxes he gathered the real-lifepeople upon whom he had based his characters. Later they attended a dinner, andaround the table he could observe, like a chemist, the various elements of hisbook, there before his eyes. None of them of course knew what was going on.Everything became material for him—not only the past, but present events andencounters would suddenly suggest a new idea or direction.When he wished to write about the particular plants and flowers that hadobsessed him as a boy, he would drive to the country and spend hours lost in observation, trying to get at the essence of their uniqueness and at what hadfascinated him, so he could recreate the original sensation for the reader.Fictionalizing the Count de Montesquiou as a character named Charlus, anotorious homosexual, he visited the most secretive male brothels in Paris thatthe count was known to frequent. His book had to be as real as possible,including graphic sex scenes. For things he could not personally witness, hewould pay others to supply him gossip, information, even do some spying. Asthe book grew in length and intensity, he had the sensation that this social realmhe was depicting had come alive within him, and feeling it from the inside, itwould flow out of him with increasing ease. He had a metaphor to explain thissensation, which he included in the novel—he was like a spider sitting on itsweb, feeling the slightest vibration, knowing it so deeply as the world he hadcreated and mastered.After the war Proust’s book continued to be published, one volume afteranother. Critics were completely astounded at the depth and breadth of his work.He had created, or rather recreated, an entire world. But this was not simply arealistic novel, for much of the work included discourses on art, psychology, thesecrets of memory, and the workings of the brain itself. Proust had delved sodeeply into his own psychology that he had made discoveries about memory andthe unconscious that seemed uncannily accurate. Going through volume aftervolume, readers would have the sensation that they were actually living andexperiencing this world from within, the narrator’s thoughts becoming one’sown thoughts—the boundaries between narrator and reader disappearing. It wasa magical effect; it felt like life itself.Straining to finish the