of our judgment, and the ﬁrmness of our will. Some never arrive at being complete; somewhat is always awanting: others ripen late. The complete man, wise in speech, prudent in act, is admitted to the familiar intimacy of discreet persons, is even sought for by them. vii Avoid Victories over Superiors. All victories breed hate, and that over your superior is foolish or fatal. Superiority is always detested, a fortiori superiority over superiority . Caution can gloss over common advantages; for example, good looks may be cloaked by careless attire. There be some that will grant you precedence in good luck or good temper, but none in good sense, least of all a prince; for good sense is a royal prerogative, any claim to that is a case of lese majeste. They are princes, and wish to be so in that most princely of qualities. They will allow a man to help them but not to surpass them, and will have any advice tendered them appear like a recollection of something they have forgotten rather than as a guide to something they cannot ﬁnd. The stars teach us this ﬁnesse with happy tact; though they are his children and brilliant like him, they never rival the brilliancy of the sun. viii T o be without Passions.'Tis a privilege of the highest order of mind. Their very eminence redeems them from being aﬀected by transient and low impulses. There is no higher rule than that over oneself, over one's impulses: there is the triumph of free will. While passion rules the character, no aiming at high oﬃce; the less the higher. It is the only reﬁned way of avoiding scandals; nay , 'tis the shortest way back to good repute. ixAvoid the Faults of your Nation. W ater shares the good or bad qualities of the strata through which it ﬂows, and man those of the climate in which he is born. Some owe more than others to their native land, because there is a more favourable sky in the zenith. There is not a nation even among the most civilised that has not some fault peculiar to itself which other nations blame by way of boast or as a warning. 'Tis a triumph of cleverness to correct in oneself such national failings, or even to hide them: you get great credit for being unique among your fellows, and as it is less expected of you it is esteemed the more. There are also family failings as well as faults of position, of oﬃce or of age. If these all meet in one person and are not carefully guarded against, they make an intolerable monster. x F ortune and Fame. Where the one is ﬁckle the other is enduring. The ﬁrst for life, the second afterwards; the one against envy , the other against oblivion. Fortune is desired, at times assisted: fame is earned. The desire for fame springs from man's best part. It was and is the sister of the