rationality mutuallyexclusive, but in fact at this high level they operate together in a seamlessfashion. The reasoning of Masters is guided by intuition; their intuition springsfrom intense rational focus. The two are fused.Although time is the critical factor in attaining Mastery and this intuitivefeel, the time we are talking about is not neutral or simply quantitative. An hourof Einstein’s thinking at the age of sixteen does not equal an hour spent by anaverage high school student working on a problem in physics. It is not a matterof studying a subject for twenty years, and then emerging as a Master. The timethat leads to mastery is dependent on the intensity of our focus.The key, then, to attaining this higher level of intelligence is to make ouryears of study qualitatively rich. We don’t simply absorb information—weinternalize it and make it our own by finding some way to put this knowledge topractical use. We look for connections between the various elements we arelearning, hidden laws that we can perceive in the apprenticeship phase. If weexperience any failures or setbacks, we do not quickly forget them because theyoffend our self-esteem. Instead we reflect on them deeply, trying to figure outwhat went wrong and discern whether there are any patterns to our mistakes. Aswe progress, we start to question some of the assumptions and conventions wehave learned along the way. Soon, we begin to experiment and becomeincreasingly active. At all points in the various moments leading to mastery, weattack with intensity. Every moment, every experience contains deep lessons forus. We are continuously awake, never merely going through the motions.The person who best exemplifies this usage of time for mastery is MarcelProust, whose great novel, In Search of Lost Time, concerns this very subject. InFrench the word for “lost” is perdu, which equally means “wasted.” And toProust, and to many of those who knew him as a young man, he seemed the leastlikely person ever to attain mastery, because on the surface he appeared to wasteso much valuable time. All he ever seemed to do was read books, take walks,write interminable letters, attend parties, sleep during the day, and publish frothysociety articles. When he finally applied himself to translating Ruskin, he tookan incredibly long time and involved himself in seemingly irrelevant tasks, liketraveling to locations Ruskin described, something no other translator wouldthink of doing.Proust himself complained endlessly about the time that he had wasted as ayoung man and how little he had accomplished, but these complaints cannot betaken at face value, because he never gave up. Despite his physical weaknessand bouts of depression, he continued to try new endeavors and kept wideningthe scope of his knowledge. He was tireless and tenacious. These moments ofself-doubt were his way of propelling himself forward and reminding himself of self-doubt were his way of propelling himself forward and reminding himself ofthe short amount of time remaining to him. He had a deep awareness of a senseof destiny, of an overall purpose for his strangeness, that he was called to fulfillthrough