early humans evolved the ability to detach and think as their primaryadvantage in the struggle to avoid predators and find food. It connected them toa reality other animals could not access. Thinking on this level was the singlegreatest turning point in all of evolution—the emergence of the conscious,reasoning mind.The second biological advantage is subtler, but equally powerful in itsimplications. All primates are essentially social creatures, but because of theirintense vulnerability in open areas, our earliest ancestors had a much greaterneed for group cohesion. They depended on the group for vigilant observation ofpredators and the gathering of food. In general, these early hominids had manymore social interactions than other primates. Over the course of hundreds ofthousands of years, this social intelligence became increasingly sophisticated,allowing these ancestors to cooperate with one another on a high level. And aswith our understanding of the natural environment, this intelligence depended ondeep attention and focus. Misreading the social signs in a tight-knit group couldprove highly dangerous.Through the elaboration of these two traits—the visual and the social—ourprimitive ancestors were able to invent and develop the complex skill of huntingsome two to three million years ago. Slowly, they became more creative,refining this complex skill into an art. They became seasonal hunters and spreadthroughout the Euro-Asian landmass, managing to adapt themselves to all kindsof climates. And in the process of this rapid evolution, their brains grew tovirtually modern human size, some 200,000 years ago.In the 1990s a group of Italian neuroscientists discovered something thatcould help explain this increasing hunting prowess of our primitive ancestors,and in turn something about mastery as it exists today. In studying the brains ofmonkeys, they found that particular motor-command neurons will not only firewhen they execute a very specific action—such as pulling a lever to get a peanutor taking hold of a banana—but that these neurons will also fire when monkeysobserve another performing the same actions. These were soon dubbed mirrorneurons. This neuronal firing meant that these primates would experience asimilar sensation in both doing and observing the same deed, allowing them toput themselves in the place of another and perceive its movements as if theywere doing them. It would account for the ability of many primates to imitate others, and for the pronounced abilities of chimpanzees to anticipate the plansand actions of a rival. Such neurons, it is speculated, evolved because of thesocial nature of primate life.Recent experiments have demonstrated the existence of such neurons inhumans, but on a much higher level of sophistication. A monkey or primate cansee an action from the point of view of the performer and imagine its intentions,but we can take this further. Without any visual cues or any action on the part ofothers, we can place ourselves inside their minds and imagine what they mightbe thinking.For our ancestors, the elaboration of mirror neurons would allow them toread each other’s desires from the subtlest of signs and thus elevate their socialskills. It would also serve as a critical component in toolmaking—one couldlearn to fashion a tool by imitating the