They urged him toconduct some controlled experiments to strengthen his case, and then to write uphis findings in a book that would spread his theory throughout Europe. his findings in a book that would spread his theory throughout Europe.Semmelweis, however, could not turn his attention away from the battle withKlein. Day by day his anger rose. Klein’s adherence to a ridiculous anddisproven theory about the fever was criminal. Such blindness to the truth madehis blood boil. How could one man have such power in his field? Why shouldSemmelweis have to take so much of his time to do experiments and writebooks, when the truth was already so apparent? He decided instead to give aseries of lectures on the subject, in which he could also express his scorn towardthe closed-mindedness of so many in the profession.Doctors from all over Europe attended Semmelweis’s lectures. Althoughsome remained skeptical, he won over more converts to his cause. His allies atthe university pressed him to continue the momentum by doing more researchand by writing a book on his theory. But within a few months of the lectures, andfor reasons no one could understand, Semmelweis suddenly left town andreturned to his native Budapest, where he found the university and medicalposition that had eluded him in Vienna. It seemed he could not endure anothermoment in the same city as Klein, and required complete freedom to operate onhis own—even though Budapest was somewhat of a medical backwater at thetime. His friends felt completely betrayed. They had staked their reputations onsupporting him, and now he had left them in the lurch.In the Budapest hospitals where he now worked, Semmelweis instituted hisdisinfection policies with such a rigor and tyrannical intensity that he cut themortality rates but alienated almost all of the doctors and nurses he worked with.More and more people were turning against him. He had forced upon everyonehis novel ideas on disinfection, but without books or the proper experiments toback them up it seemed that he was merely promoting himself, or obsessed withsome fanciful idea of his own creation. The vehemence with which he insistedon its truth only called more attention to the lack of scholarly rigor to back it up.Doctors speculated about other possible causes for his success in cutting theincidence of childbed fever.Finally in 1860, under pressure from colleagues yet again, he decided towrite the book that would explain his theory in full. When he was finished withit, what should have been a relatively small volume had ballooned into a 600-page diatribe that was nearly impossible to read. It was hopelessly repetitive andconvoluted. His arguments would turn into polemics as he enumerated thedoctors who had opposed him and who were therefore murderers. During suchpassages his writing became almost apocalyptic.Now his opponents came out of the woodwork. He had committed himself towriting but had done such a bad job that they could poke holes through his writing but had done such a bad job that they could poke holes through hisarguments, or merely call attention to his violent