of government alone. These three tendencies are like three different codes of law, deep-rooted in their subject and yet variable in their relationship to one another. A theory that ignores any one of them or seeks to fix an arbitrary relationship between them would conflict with reality to such an extent that for this reason alone it would be totally useless. Our task therefore is to develop a theory that maintains a balance between these three tendencies, like an object suspended between three magnets. What lines might best be followed to achieve this difficult task will be explored in the book on the theory of war [Book Two]. At any rate, the pre- liminary concept of war which we have formulated casts a first ray of light on the basic structure of theory, and enables us to make an initial differen- tiation and identification of its major components. Copyright © ${Date}. ${Publisher}. All rights reserved. CHAPTER TWO Purpose and Means in War The preceding chapter showed that the nature of war is complex and change- able. I now propose to inquire how its nature influences its purpose and its means. If for a start we inquire into the objective of any particular war, which must guide military action if the political purpose is to be properly served, we find that the object of any wsr can vary just as much as its political purpose and its actual circumstances. If for the moment we consider the pure concept of war, we should have to say that the political purpose of war had no connection with war itself; for if war is an act of violence meant to force the enemy to do our will its aim would have always and solely to be to overcome the enemy and disarm him. That aim is derived from the theoretical concept of war; but since many wars do actually come very close to fulfilling it, let us examine this kind of war first of all. Later, when we are dealing with the subject of war plans, we shall investi- gate in greater detail what is meant by disarming a country. But we should at once distinguish between three things, three broad objectives, which between them cover everything: the armed forces, the country, and the enemy's will. The fighting forces m6st be destroyed: that is, they must be put in such a condition that they can no longer carry on the fight. Whenever we use the phrase "destruction of the enemy's forces" this alone is what we mean. The country must be occupied; otherwise the enemy could raise fresh military forces. Yet both these things may be done and the war, that is the animosity and the reciprocal effects of hostile elements, cannot be considered to have ended so long as the enemy's will has not been broken: in other words, so long as the enemy government and its allies have not been driven to ask for peace, or the population made to submit. We