had gone verywrong. From reconnaissance aircraft he knew that the flat land around Suvla wasessentially empty and undefended; the way to Tekke Tepe was open--the troopshad only to march--but they were staying where they were. Hamilton decided tovisit the front himself. Reaching Stopford's boat late that afternoon, he found thegeneral in a self-congratulatory mood: all 20,000 men had gotten ashore. No, hehad not yet ordered the troops to advance to the hills; without artillery he wasafraid the Turks might counterattack, and he needed the day to consolidate hispositions and to land supplies. Hamilton strained to control himself: he hadheard an hour earlier that Turkish reinforcements had been seen hurrying towardSuvla. The Allies would have to secure Tekke Tepe this evening, he said--butStopford was against a night march. Too dangerous. Hamilton retained his cooland politely excused himself. Any army is like a horse, in that it reflects the temper and the spirit of itsrider. If there is an uneasiness and an uncertainty, it transmits itself throughthe reins, and the horse feels uneasy and uncertain.LONE STAR PREACHER, COLONEL JOHN W. THOMASON, JR., 1941In near panic, Hamilton decided to visit Hammersley at Suvla. Much to hisdismay, he found the army lounging on the beach as if it were a bank holiday. Hefinally located Hammersley--he was at the far end of the bay, busily supervisingthe building of his temporary headquarters. Asked why he had failed to securethe hills, Hammersley replied that he had sent several brigades for the purpose,but they had encountered Turkish artillery and his colonels had told him theycould not advance without more instructions. Communications betweenHammersley, Stopford, and the colonels in the field were taking forever, andwhen Stopford had finally been reached, he had sent the message back toHammersley to proceed cautiously, rest his men, and wait to advance until thenext day. Hamilton could control himself no longer: a handful of Turks with afew guns were holding up an army of 20,000 men from marching a mere fourmiles! Tomorrow morning would be too late; the Turkish reinforcements wereon their way. Although it was already night, Hamilton ordered Hammersley tosend a brigade immediately to Tekke Tepe. It would be a race to the finish.Hamilton returned to a boat in the harbor to monitor the situation. At sunrisethe next morning, he watched the battlefield through binoculars--and saw, to hishorror, the Allied troops in headlong retreat to Suvla. A large Turkish force hadarrived at Tekke Tepe thirty minutes before them. In the next few days, the Turksmanaged to regain the flats around Suvla and to pin Hamilton's army on thebeach. Some four months later, the Allies gave up their attack on Gallipoli andevacuated their troops.InterpretationIn planning the invasion at Suvla, Hamilton thought of everything. Heunderstood the need for surprise, deceiving the Turks about the landing site. Hemastered the logistical details of a complex amphibious assault. Locating the keypoint--Tekke Tepe--from which the Allies could break the stalemate in Gallipoli,he crafted an excellent strategy to get there. He even tried to prepare for the kindof unexpected contingencies