Washington instead of giving him the field assignment that hedesperately wanted. The colonel passed the test. Much like Marshall himself, hegot along well with other officers yet was quietly forceful.In July 1942, as the Americans prepared to enter the war by fightingalongside the British in North Africa, Marshall surprised one and all by namingEisenhower commander in the European Theater of Operations. Eisenhower wasby this time a lieutenant general but was still relatively unknown, and in his firstfew months in the job, as the Americans fared poorly in North Africa, the Britishclamored for a replacement. But Marshall stood by his man, offering him adviceand encouragement. One key suggestion was for Eisenhower to develop aprotege, much as Marshall had with him--a kind of roving deputy who thoughtthe way he did and would act as his go-between with subordinates. Marshall'ssuggestion for the post was Major General Bradley, a man he knew well;Eisenhower accepted the idea, essentially duplicating the staff structure thatMarshall had created in the War Department. With Bradley in place, Marshallleft Eisenhower alone.Marshall positioned his proteges throughout the War Department, wherethey quietly spread his way of doing things. To make the task easier, he cut thewaste in the department with utter ruthlessness, reducing from sixty to six thenumber of deputies who reported to him. Marshall hated excess; his reports toRoosevelt made him famous for his ability to summarize a complex situation ina few pages. The six men who reported to him found that any report that lasted apage too long simply went unread. He would listen to their oral presentationswith rapt attention, but the minute they wandered from the topic or saidsomething not thought through, he would look away, bored, uninterested. It wasan expression they dreaded: without saying a word, he had made it known thatthey had displeased him and it was time for them to leave. Marshall's sixdeputies began to think like him and to demand from those who reported to themthe efficiency and streamlined communications style he demanded of them. Thespeed of the information flow up and down the line was now quadrupled. "Do you think every Greek here can be a king? It's no good having a carloadof commanders. We need One commander, one king, the one to whom Zeus,Son of Cronus the crooked, has given the staff And the right to make decisionsfor his people." And so Odysseus mastered the army. The men all Streamedback from their ships and huts and assembled With a roar. THE ILIAD, HOMER, CIRCA NINTH CENTURY B.C.Marshall exuded authority but never yelled and never challenged menfrontally. He had a knack for communicating his wishes indirectly--a skill thatwas all the more effective since it made his officers think about what he meant.Brigadier General Leslie R. Groves, the military director of the project todevelop the atom bomb, once came to Marshall's office to get him to sign off on$100 million in expenditures. Finding the chief of staff engrossed in paperwork,he waited while Marshall diligently compared documents and made notes.Finally Marshall put down his pen, examined