in the management oftheir human chattels. Mr. Auld promptly forbade the continuance of her[reading] instruction; telling her, in the first place, that the thing itself wasunlawful; that it was also unsafe, and could only lead to mischief.... Mrs.Auld evidently felt the force of his remarks; and, like an obedient wife, beganto shape her course in the direction indicated by her husband. The effect ofhis words, on me, was neither slight nor transitory. His iron sentences--coldand harsh--sunk deep into my heart, and stirred up not only my feelings into asort of rebellion, but awakened within me a slumbering train of vital thought.It was a new and special revelation, dispelling a painful mystery, againstwhich my youthful understanding had struggled, and struggled in vain, to wit:the white man's power to perpetuate the enslavement of the black man. "Verywell," thought I; "knowledge unfits a child to be a slave." I instinctivelyassented to the proposition; and from that moment I understood the directpathway from slavery to freedom. This was just what I needed; and got it at atime, and from a source, whence I least expected it.... Wise as Mr. Auld was,he evidently underrated my comprehension, and had little idea of the use towhich I was capable of putting the impressive lesson he was giving to hiswife.... That which he most loved I most hated; and the very determinationwhich he expressed to keep me in ignorance, only rendered me the moreresolute in seeking intelligence.MY BONDAGE AND MY FREEDOM, FREDERICK DOUGLASS, 1818-1895The child psychologist Jean Piaget saw conflict as a critical part of mentaldevelopment. Through battles with peers and then parents, children learn toadapt to the world and develop strategies for dealing with problems. Thosechildren who seek to avoid conflict at all cost, or those who have overprotectiveparents, end up handicapped socially and mentally. The same is true of adults: itis through your battles with others that you learn what works, what doesn't, and how to protect yourself. Instead of shrinking from the idea of having enemies,then, embrace it. Conflict is therapeutic.Enemies bring many gifts. For one thing, they motivate you and focus yourbeliefs. The artist Salvador Dali found early on that there were many qualities hecould not stand in people: conformity, romanticism, piety. At every stage of hislife, he found someone he thought embodied these anti-ideals--an enemy to venton. First it was the poet Federico Garcia Lorca, who wrote romantic poetry; thenit was Andre Breton, the heavy-handed leader of the surrealist movement.Having such enemies to rebel against made Dali feel confident and inspired.Enemies also give you a standard by which to judge yourself, bothpersonally and socially. The samurai of Japan had no gauge of their excellenceunless they fought the best swordsmen; it took Joe Frazier to make MuhammadAli a truly great fighter. A tough opponent will bring out the best in you. And thebigger the opponent, the greater your reward, even in defeat. It is better to lose toa worthy opponent than to squash some harmless foe. You will gain sympathyand respect, building support for