of imagining rolls of paperthat could record sound. Random external stimuli lead us to associations wecannot come by on our own. Like seeds floating in space, they require the soil ofa highly prepared and open mind to take root in and sprout a meaningful idea.Serendipity strategies can be interesting devices in the arts as well. For Serendipity strategies can be interesting devices in the arts as well. Forinstance, the writer Anthony Burgess, trying to free his mind up from the samestale ideas, decided on several occasions to choose random words in a referencebook and use them to guide the plot of a novel, according to the order andassociations of the words. Once he had completely haphazard starting points, hisconscious mind took over and he worked them into extremely well-craftednovels with surprising structures. The surrealist artist Max Ernst did somethingsimilar in a series of paintings inspired by the deep grooves in a wood floor thathad been scrubbed too many times. He laid pieces of paper rubbed with blacklead on the floor at odd angles, and made prints of them. Based on these prints,he proceeded to make surreal and hallucinatory drawings. In these examples, arandom idea was used to force the mind to create novel associations and toloosen up the creative urge. This mix of complete chance and consciouselaboration often creates novel and exciting effects.To help yourself to cultivate serendipity, you should keep a notebook withyou at all times. The moment any idea or observation comes, you note it down.You keep the notebook by your bed, careful to record ideas that come in thosemoments of fringe awareness—just before falling asleep, or just upon waking. Inthis notebook you record any scrap of thought that occurs to you, and includedrawings, quotes from other books, anything at all. In this way, you will have thefreedom to try out the most absurd ideas. The juxtaposition of so many randombits will be enough to spark various associations.In general you must adopt a more analogical way of thinking, taking greateradvantage of the associative powers of the mind. Thinking in terms of analogiesand metaphors can be extremely helpful to the creative process. For instance, anargument people used in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries to prove that theearth does not move was to say that a rock dropped from a tower lands at itsbase. If the earth were moving, they argued, it would fall elsewhere. Galileo, aman who habitually thought in terms of analogies, saw the earth in his mind as akind of sailing ship in space. As he explained to doubters of the earth’smovement, a rock dropped from the mast of a moving ship still lands at its base.These analogies can be tight and logical, such as Isaac Newton’s comparisonof the falling apple from a tree in his garden to the moon falling in space. Orthey can be loose and somewhat irrational, such as the jazz artist John Coltrane’sthinking of his own compositions as cathedrals of sound he was constructing. Inany event, you must train yourself to look constantly