a clear and reasonable form,displaying a monumental disregard for the importance of persuading others. If hehad merely devoted his time to making his case in writing, he would have savedfar more lives in the long run.Harvey’s success, on the other hand, was greatly due to his social agility. Heunderstood that even a scientist must play the courtier. He involved others in hiswork, making them emotionally attached to his theory. He published his resultsin a thoughtful, well-reasoned, and easy-to-read book. And then he quietlyallowed his book to speak for itself, knowing that by asserting himself after itspublication, he would merely call attention to the person and not the work. Hedid not give fuel to the foolishness of others by engaging in petty battles, andany opposition to his theories withered away on its own.Understand: your work is the single greatest means at your disposal forexpressing your social intelligence. By being efficient and detail oriented in whatyou do, you demonstrate that you are thinking of the group at large andadvancing its cause. By making what you write or present clear and easy tofollow, you show your care for the audience or public at large. By involvingother people in your projects and gracefully accepting their feedback, you revealyour comfort with the group dynamic. Work that is solid also protects you fromthe political conniving and malevolence of others—it is hard to argue with theresults you produce. If you are experiencing the pressures of politicalmaneuvering within the group, do not lose your head and become consumedwith all of the pettiness. By remaining focused and speaking socially throughyour work, you will both continue to raise your skill level and stand out amongall the others who make a lot of noise but produce nothing. 2. Craft the appropriate personaFrom early on in life, Teresita Fernández (b. 1968) had the feeling that she waswatching the world around her from a distance, like a voyeur. As a young girlgrowing up in Miami, Florida, she would observe the adults around her,eavesdropping on their conversations, trying to decode the secrets of theirstrange world. As she got older, she applied her observational skills to herclassmates. In high school, people were expected to fit into one of the variouscliques. She could see clearly the rules and conventions that went into being apart of these groups, and the kinds of behavior that were considered correct. Shefelt alienated from all of these different cliques, and so she remained on theoutside.She had a similar experience in relation to Miami itself. Although she had anaffinity with the Cuban culture that was part of her own background as a firstgeneration Cuban-American, she could not identify with the happy beachlifestyle that prevailed there. There was something more somber and edgier toher spirit. All of this accentuated her sense of being an outsider, a floater that didnot fit in anywhere. There were other floaters in school, and they tended to driftinto theater or the art scene—places where it was safer to be unconventional.Teresita had always liked making things with her hands,