him. First, a Roman general named Fabius had finally conceived astrategy to keep Hannibal at bay. Keeping his legions in the hills and avoidingdirect battle, Fabius had launched hit-and-run raids designed to wear down theCarthaginians, who were fighting far from their home, in what is now Tunisia.The campaign had worked as a holding action, but to Scipio it had seemedequally exhausting for the Romans to fight so long and still have the enemy attheir doorstep. Also, since the plan could not lead to any real defeat of Hannibal,it was basically flawed.Second, a year into Hannibal's invasion, the Romans had sent Scipio's fatherto Spain to try to knock out the Carthaginian bases there. Carthage had hadcolonies in Spain for many years and earned wealth from Spanish mines. It usedSpain as a training ground for its soldiers and as the base for its war on Rome.For six years Scipio's father had fought the Carthaginians on the Spanishpeninsula, but the campaign had ended in his defeat and death in 211 B.C.As Scipio studied the reports coming in about the situation beyond the Ebro,a plan took root in his mind: with one bold maneuver, he could avenge hisfather's death the year before, demonstrate the effectiveness of a strategy hethought far better than Fabius's, and set in motion the eventual collapse not justof Hannibal but of Carthage itself. Along the coast to the south of him was thecity of New Carthage (present-day Cartagena), the Carthaginians' capital inSpain. There they stored their vast wealth, their army's supplies, and the hostagesthey had taken from different Spanish tribes to be held as ransom in case ofrebellion. At this moment the Carthaginian armies--which outnumbered theRomans two to one--were scattered about the country, trying to gain furtherdomination over the Spanish tribes, and were all several days' march from NewCarthage. Their commanders, Scipio learned, had been quarreling amongthemselves over power and money. Meanwhile New Carthage was garrisonedwith only 1,000 men.The third shogun Iemitsu was fond of sword matches. Once, when hearranged to see some of his outstanding swordsmen display their skills, hespotted among the gathering a master equestrian by the name of SuwaBunkuro, and impulsively asked him to take part. Bunkuro responded bysaying that he would be pleased to if he could fight on horseback, adding that he could defeat anyone on horseback. Iemitsu was delighted to urge theswordsmen to fight Bunkuro in the style he preferred. As it turned out,Bunkuro was right in his boasting. Brandishing a sword on a prancing horsewasn't something many swordsmen were used to, and Bunkuro easily defeatedeveryone who dared face him on horseback. Somewhat exasperated, Iemitsutold Munenori to give it a try. Though a bystander on this occasion, Munenoriat once complied and mounted a horse. As his horse trotted up to Bunkuro's,Munenori suddenly stopped his horse and slapped the nose of Bunkuro'shorse with his wooden sword. Bunkuro's horse reared, and while the famedequestrian was trying to restore his balance, Munenori struck him off hishorse.THE SWORD AND THE MIND, TRANSLATED BY HIROAKI SATO, 1985Disobeying his orders