stealing up on its prey, he could waitfor Melas to notice the trap he was in and try to fight his way out of it nearMilan.On June 8, however, once again more bad news reached Napoleon: twoweeks before he had hoped, Massena had surrendered. Napoleon now had fewermen to work with, and Melas had won a strong base in Genoa. Since itsinception the campaign had been plagued with mistakes and unforeseen events--the Austrians attacking early, Massena retreating into a trap at Genoa, Moreau disobeying orders, and now Massena's surrender. Yet while Napoleon'slieutenants feared the worst, Napoleon himself not only stayed cool, he seemedoddly excited by these sudden twists of fortune. Somehow he could discernopportunities in them that were invisible to everyone else--and with the loss ofGenoa, he sensed the greatest opportunity of all. He quickly altered his plan;instead of waiting at Milan for Melas to come to him, he suddenly cast hisdivisions in a wide net to the west.Watching his prey closely, Napoleon sensed that Melas was mesmerized bythe movements of the French divisions--a fatal hesitation. Napoleon moved onedivision west to Marengo, close to the Austrians at Genoa, almost baiting themto attack. Suddenly, on the morning of June 14, they took the bait, and insurprising force. This time it was Napoleon who had erred; he had not expectedthe Austrian attack for several days, and his divisions were scattered too widelyto support him. The Austrians at Marengo outnumbered him two to one. Hedispatched urgent messages in all directions for reinforcements, then settled intobattle, hoping to make his small forces hold ground until they came.The hours went by with no sign of aid. Napoleon's lines grew weaker, and atthree in the afternoon the Austrians finally broke through, forcing the French toretreat. This was the ultimate downturn in the campaign, and it was yet againNapoleon's moment to shine. He seemed encouraged by the way the retreat wasgoing, the French scattering and the Austrians pursuing them, without disciplineor cohesion. Riding among the men who had retreated the farthest, he ralliedthem and prepared them to counterattack, promising them that reinforcementswould arrive within minutes--and he was right. Now French divisions werecoming in from all directions. The Austrians, meanwhile, had let their ranks fallinto disorder, and, stunned to find themselves facing new forces in thiscondition, they halted and then gave ground to a quickly organized Frenchcounterattack. By 9:00 P.M. the French had routed them.Just as Napoleon had predicted with his pin on the map, he met and defeatedthe enemy at Marengo. A few months later, a treaty was signed that gave Francethe peace it so desperately needed, a peace that was to last nearly four years.Aptitude for maneuver is the supreme skill in a general; it is the most usefuland rarest of gifts by which genius is estimated.NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, 1769-1821InterpretationNapoleon's victory at Marengo might seem to have depended on a fair amount ofluck and intuition. But that is not at all the case. Napoleon believed that a superior strategist could create his own luck--through calculation, carefulplanning, and