Even with today'sextraordinary technology, attrition warfare is remarkably unsophisticated,playing into humanity's most violent instincts.Warfare is like hunting. Wild animals are taken by scouting, by nets, by lyingin wait, by stalking, by circling around, and by other such stratagems ratherthan by sheer force. In waging war we should proceed in the same way,whether the enemy be many or few. To try simply to overpower the enemy inthe open, hand to hand and face to face, even though you might appear towin, is an enterprise which is very risky and can result in serious harm. Apartfrom extreme emergency, it is ridiculous to try to gain a victory which is socostly and brings only empty glory....BYZANTINE EMPEROR MAURIKIOS, A.D. 539-602 Over many centuries, and most notably in ancient China, a second method ofwaging war developed. The emphasis here was not destroying the other side inbattle but weakening and unbalancing it before the battle began. The leaderwould maneuver to confuse and infuriate and to put the enemy in a bad position--having to fight uphill, or with the sun or wind in its face, or in a cramped space.In this kind of war, an army with mobility could be more effective than one withmuscle.The maneuver-warfare philosophy was codified by Sun-tzu in his Art of War,written in China's Warring States period, in the fifth to third century B.C.--overtwo hundred years of escalating cycles of warfare in which a state's very survivaldepended on its army and strategists. To Sun-tzu and his contemporaries, it wasobvious that the costs of war went far beyond its body counts: it entailed a lossof resources and political goodwill and a lowering of morale among soldiers andcitizens. These costs would mount over time until eventually even the greatestwarrior nation would succumb to exhaustion. But through adroit maneuvering astate could spare itself such high costs and still emerge victorious. An enemywho had been maneuvered into a weak position would succumb more easily topsychological pressure; even before the battle had begun, it had imperceptiblystarted to collapse and would surrender with less of a fight.Several strategists outside Asia--most notably Napoleon Bonaparte--havemade brilliant use of maneuver warfare. But in general, attrition warfare isdeeply engrained in the Western way of thinking--from the ancient Greeks tomodern America. In an attrition culture, thoughts naturally gravitate toward howto overpower problems, obstacles, those who resist us. In the media, emphasis isplaced on big battles, whether in politics or in the arts--static situations in whichthere are winners and losers. People are drawn to the emotional and dramaticquality in any confrontation, not the many steps that lead to such confrontation.The stories that are told in such cultures are all geared toward such battlelikemoments, a moral message preached through the ending (as opposed to the moretelling details). On top of it all, this way of fighting is deemed more manly,honorable, honest.More than anything, maneuver war is a different way of thinking. Whatmatters here is process--the steps toward battle and how to manipulate them tomake the confrontation less costly and violent. In the maneuver universe,nothing is