we become Homo magister, man or woman the Master.To the extent that we believe we can skip steps, avoid the process, magicallygain power through political connections or easy formulas, or depend on ournatural talents, we move against this grain and reverse our natural powers. Webecome slaves to time—as it passes, we grow weaker, less capable, trapped insome dead-end career. We become captive to the opinions and fears of others.Rather than the mind connecting us to reality, we become disconnected andlocked in a narrow chamber of thought. The human that depended on focusedattention for its survival now becomes the distracted scanning animal, unable tothink in depth, yet unable to depend on instincts.It is the height of stupidity to believe that in the course of your short life,your few decades of consciousness, you can somehow rewire the configurationsof your brain through technology and wishful thinking, overcoming the effect ofsix million years of development. To go against the grain might bring temporarydistraction, but time will mercilessly expose your weakness and impatience.The great salvation for all of us is that we have inherited an instrument that isremarkably plastic. Our hunter-gatherer ancestors, over the course of time,managed to craft the brain into its present shape by creating a culture that couldlearn, change, and adapt to circumstances, that wasn’t a prisoner to theincredibly slow march of natural evolution. As modern individuals, our brains have the same power, the same plasticity. At any moment we can choose to shiftour relationship to time and work with the grain, knowing of its existence andpower. With the element of time working for us, we can reverse the bad habitsand passivity, and move up the ladder of intelligence.Think of this shift as a return to your radical, deep past as a human,connecting to and maintaining a magnificent continuity with your hunter-gatherer ancestors in a modern form. The environment we operate in may bedifferent, but the brain is essentially the same, and its power to learn, adapt, andmaster time is universal.KEYS TO MASTERYA man should learn to detect and watch that gleam of light which flashes across his mindfrom within, more than the luster of the firmament of bards and sages. Yet he dismisseswithout notice his thought, because it is his. In every work of genius we recognize our ownrejected thoughts; they come back to us with a certain alienated majesty.—RALPH WALDO EMERSONIf all of us are born with an essentially similar brain, with more or less the sameconfiguration and potential for mastery, why is it then that in history only alimited number of people seem to truly excel and realize this potential power?Certainly, in a practical sense, this is the most important question for us toanswer.The common explanations for a Mozart or a Leonardo da Vinci revolvearound natural talent and brilliance. How else to account for their uncannyachievements except in terms of something they were born with? But thousandsupon thousands of children display exceptional skill and talent in some field, yetrelatively few of them ever amount to anything, whereas those who