collecting seashells from beachesnear his home in Madras. In researching the subject, his attention was drawn tothe most peculiar varieties of seashells, such as the carnivorous murex. Soon headded these unusual specimens to his collection. As he got older, he transferredthis interest to abnormal phenomena in chemistry, astronomy, and humananatomy. Perhaps he intuited that these anomalies fulfilled some kind of purposein nature, that what does not fit the pattern has something interesting to tell us.Perhaps he felt that he himself—with his passion for science when other boyswere attracted to sports or games—was a bit of an anomaly as well. In any event,as he matured his attraction to the bizarre and abnormal only grew.In the 1980s, as a professor of visual psychology at the University ofCalifornia at San Diego, he came upon a phenomenon that appealed to hisinterest in anomalies in the deepest way—the so-called phantom limb syndrome.In this case, people who have had a limb amputated continue to experiencesensation and pain where the limb used to be. In his research as a visualpsychologist, Ramachandran had specialized in optical illusions—instances inwhich the brain would incorrectly fill in information from what the eyes hadprocessed. Phantom limbs represented an optical illusion on a much larger scale,with the brain supplying sensation where there could be none. Why would thebrain send such signals? What does such a phenomenon tell us about the brain ingeneral? And why were there so few people interested in this truly bizarrecondition? He became obsessed with these questions, and read everything hecould about the subject.One day in 1991, he read about an experiment conducted by Dr. TimothyPons of the National Institute of Health that astounded him with its possible Pons of the National Institute of Health that astounded him with its possibleramifications. Pons’s experiment was based on research from the 1950s in whichthe Canadian neurosurgeon, Wilder Penfeld, had been able to map the areas ofthe human brain that regulate sensation in various body parts. This map ended upbeing applicable to primates as well.In Pons’s experiment, he worked with monkeys whose nerve fibers from thebrain to one arm had been severed. In testing out the map of their brains, Ponsdiscovered that when he touched the hand of the dead arm, there was no activityin the corresponding part of the brain, as expected. But when he touched theirfaces, suddenly the cells in the brain that corresponded to the dead hand began tofire rapidly, in addition to those of the face. The nerve cells in the brain thatgovern sensation in the hand had somehow migrated to the area of the face. Itwas impossible to know for sure, but it seemed that these monkeys wereexperiencing sensation in the dead hand when their faces were touched.Inspired by this discovery, Ramachandran decided to conduct an experimentthat was astonishing for its simplicity. He brought into his office a young manwho, because of a recent car accident, had had his left arm amputated from justabove the elbow, and was now experiencing considerable sensation in hisphantom limb. Using a cotton