studies, to keep a microview, rather than possibly embarrassing themselves with a speculation that couldbe wrong.Sometimes this fear of speculation masquerades as skepticism. We see this inpeople who delight in shooting down any theory or explanation before it getsanywhere. They are trying to pass off skepticism as a sign of high intelligence,but in fact they are taking the easy route—it is quite simple to find argumentsagainst any idea and knock it down from the sidelines. Instead, you must followthe route of all creative thinkers and go in the opposite direction. You then notonly speculate, but are bold and audacious with your ideas, all of which forcesyou to work hard to confirm or disconfirm your theories, piercing into reality inthe process. As the great physicist Max Planck put it, scientists “must have avivid intuitive imagination, for new ideas are not generated by deduction, but byan artistically creative imagination.”The Current has applications far beyond science. The great inventorBuckminster Fuller was constantly coming up with ideas for possible inventionsand new forms of technology. Early in his career, Fuller noticed that manypeople have great ideas, but are afraid to put them into action in any form. Theyprefer to engage in discussions or critiques, writing about their fantasies butnever playing them out in the real world. To set himself apart from thesedreamers, he created a strategy of forging what he called “artifacts.” Working offhis ideas, which were sometimes quite wild, he would make models of things heimagined, and if they seemed at all feasible, he would proceed to inventprototypes of them. By actually translating his ideas into tangible objects, hecould gain a sense of whether they were potentially interesting or merelyridiculous. Now his seemingly outlandish ideas were no longer speculations, butrealities. He would then take his prototypes to another level, constructingartifacts for the public to see how they would respond.One artifact he made was the Dymaxion car, which he unveiled to the publicin 1933. It was meant to be much more efficient, maneuverable, andaerodynamic than any vehicle in existence, featuring three wheels and anunusual teardrop shape; in addition, it could be quickly and cheaply assembled.In making this artifact public he realized several faults in its design andreformulated it. Although it led nowhere, particularly as the auto industry put allkinds of roadblocks before him, the Dymaxion car ended up influencing future kinds of roadblocks before him, the Dymaxion car ended up influencing futuredesigners, and caused many to question the single-minded approach people hadto the design of the automobile. Fuller would expand this artifact strategy to allof his ideas, including his most famous one—the geodesic dome.Fuller’s process of making artifacts is a great model for any kind of newinvention or idea in business and commerce. Let us say you have an idea for anew product. You can design it on your own and then launch it, but often younotice a discrepancy between your own level of excitement for your product andthe somewhat indifferent response of the public. You have not engaged in adialogue with reality, which is