the local people, and even dressed in their style. He had alsobefriended Sherif Feisal, a leader of the Arab revolt. Could he be raising an armyto attack Aqaba? To the extent that this was possible, he was worth watchingcarefully. Then word came that Lawrence had imprudently told an Arab chief,secretly in Turkish pay, that he was heading for Damascus to spread the Arabrevolt. This was the Turks' great fear, for a revolt in the more populated areas ofthe north would be unmanageable.The army Lawrence had recruited could not have numbered more than 500,but the Howeitat were great fighters on camel, fierce and mobile. The Turksalerted their colleagues in Damascus and dispatched troops to hunt Lawrencedown, a difficult task given the mobility of the Arabs and the vastness of thedesert.In the next few weeks, the Englishman's movements were baffling, to say theleast: his troops moved not north toward Damascus but south toward the railwaytown of Ma'an, site of a storage depot used to supply Aqaba, forty miles away.No sooner had Lawrence appeared in the area of Ma'an, however, than hedisappeared, reemerging over a hundred miles north to lead a series of raids onthe railway line between Amman and Damascus. Now the Turks were doublyalarmed and sent 400 cavalry from Amman to find him.For a few days, there was no sign of Lawrence. In the meantime an uprisingseveral miles to the south of Ma'an surprised the Turks. An Arab tribe called theDhumaniyeh had seized control of the town of Abu el Lissal, directly along theroute from Ma'an to Aqaba. A Turkish battalion dispatched to take the town backfound the blockhouse guarding it destroyed and the Arabs gone. Then, suddenly,something unexpected and quite disturbing occurred: out of nowhere Lawrence'sHoweitat army emerged on the hill above Abu el Lissal.The warrior and the statesman, like the skillful gambler, do not make theirluck but prepare for it, attract it, and seem almost to determine their luck. Notonly are they, unlike the fool and the coward, adept at making use ofopportunities when these occur; they know furthermore how to takeadvantage, by means of precautions and wise measures, of such and such anopportunity, or of several at once. If one thing happens, they win; if another,they are still the winners; the same circumstance often makes them win in avariety of ways. These prudent men may be praised for their good fortune as well as their good management, and rewarded for their luck as well as fortheir merits.CHARACTERS, JEAN DE LA BRUYERE, 1645-1696Distracted by the local uprising, the Turks had lost track of Lawrence. Now,linking up with the Dhumaniyeh, he had trapped a Turkish army at Abu elLissal. The Arabs rode along the hill with enormous speed and dexterity,goading the Turks into wasting ammunition by firing on them. Meanwhile themidday heat took its toll on the Turkish riflemen, and, having waited until theTurks were sufficiently tired, the Arabs, Lawrence among them, charged downthe hill. The Turks closed their ranks, but the swift-moving camel cavalry tookthem from the flank and