inhis own right, with expanding knowledge of other sciences. He was doingindependent research, but Davy was still treating him as an assistant, makinghim send packets of dead flies for his fishing lures and assigning him othermenial tasks.It was Davy who had rescued him from the drudgery of the bookbindingbusiness. He owed him everything. But Faraday was now thirty years old, and ifhe were not allowed soon enough to declare his independence, his most creativeyears would be wasted as a laboratory assistant. To leave on bad terms, however,would ruin his name in the scientific community, especially considering his ownlack of reputation. Then, finally, Faraday found a chance to separate himselffrom his overbearing mentor, and he exploited this opportunity to the maximum.Scientists throughout Europe were making discoveries about the relationshipbetween electricity and magnetism, but the effect they had on each other wasstrange—creating a movement that was not linear and direct, but apparentlymore circular. Nothing in nature was quite like this. How to reveal the exactshape of this effect or movement in an experiment became the rage, and soonDavy got involved. Working with a fellow scientist named William HydeWollaston, they proposed the idea that the movement created byelectromagnetism was more like a spiral. Involving Faraday in their experiments,they devised a way to break up the movement into small increments that couldbe measured. Once this was all added up, it would show the spiral motion.At about the same time, Faraday was asked by a close friend to write areview of all that was known about electromagnetism for an established journal, review of all that was known about electromagnetism for an established journal,and so he began a rigorous study of the field. Thinking like his mentor, hespeculated that there must be a way to physically demonstrate the motion createdby electromagnetism in a continual fashion, so that no one could dispute theresults. One night in September 1821 he had a vision of just such an experiment,and he put it into practice. With a bar magnet secured upright in a cup of liquidmercury (a metal that conducts electricity), Faraday placed a suspended wire,buoyed by a cork, in the mercury. When the wire was charged with electricity,the cork moved around the magnet in a precise conical path. The reverseexperiment (with the wire secured in the water) revealed the same pattern.This was the first time in history that electricity had been used to generatecontinual motion, the precursor to all electric motors. The experiment was sosimple and yet only Faraday had seen it so clearly. It revealed a way of thinkingthat was very much the product of Davy’s tutelage. Feeling the weight of yearsof poverty, crushed expectations, and servitude lifting off of him, he dancedaround the laboratory. This would be the discovery that would free him at last.Excited about what he had done, he rushed to have his results published.In his haste to get his report out, however, Faraday had forgotten to mentionthe research done by Wollaston and Davy. Soon enough, the rumor spread thatFaraday had actually plagiarized their work.