Yin-Yang foot means not moving only one foot. It means moving your feet left-right and right-left when cutting, withdrawing, or warding off a cut. You should not move one foot preferentially. The Five Attitudes The five attitudes are: Upper, Middle, Lower, Right Side, and Left Side. These are the five. Although attitude has these five dimensions, the one purpose of all of them is to cut the enemy. There are none but these five attitudes. Whatever attitude you are in, do not be conscious of making the attitude; think only of cutting. Your attitude should be large or small according to the situation. Upper, Lower and Middle attitudes are decisive. Left Side and Right Side attitudes are fluid. Left and Right attitudes should be used if there is an obstruction overhead or to one side. The decision to use Left or Right depends on the place. The essence of the Way is this. To understand attitude you must thoroughly understand the Middle attitude. The Middle attitude is the heart of the attitudes. If we look at strategy on a broad scale, the Middle attitude is the seat of the commander, with the other four attitudes following the commander. You must appreciate this. The Way of the Long Sword Knowing the Way of the long sword35 means we can wield with two fingers the sword that we usually carry. If we know the path of the sword well, we can wield it easily. If you try to wield the long sword quickly you will mistake the Way. To wield the long sword well you must wield it calmly. If you try to wield it quickly, like a folding fan36 or a short sword, you will err by using "short sword chopping". You cannot cut a man with a long sword using this method. When you have cut downwards with the long sword, lift it straight upwards, when you cut sideways, return the sword along a sideways path. Return the sword in a reasonable way, always stretching the elbows broadly. Wield the sword strongly. This is the Way of the long sword. If you learn to use the five approaches of my strategy, you will be able to wield a sword well. You must train constantly. The Five Approaches37 • The first approach is the Middle attitude. Confront the enemy with the point of your sword against his face. When he attacks, dash his sword to the right and "ride" it. 35The Way of the Long Sword : The Way as a way of life, and as the natural path of a sword blade. There is a natural movement of the sword associated with a natural behavior according to Kendo ethics. 36Folding fan : An item carried by men and women in the hot summer months. Armoured officers sometimes carried an iron war fan. 37The Five Approaches : Who can understand Musashi’s methods? It is necessary to study traditional schools and basic cutting practice. Bear in mind that fighting technique may start