them everywhere: the indecisive boss, the rashcolleague, the hysterical subordinate. When working alongside fools, do notfight them. Instead think of them the way you think of children, or pets, notimportant enough to affect your mental balance. Detach yourself emotionally.And while you're inwardly laughing at their foolishness, indulge them in one oftheir more harmless ideas. The ability to stay cheerful in the face of fools is animportant skill. Crowd out feelings of panic by focusing on simple tasks. Lord Yamanouchi,an aristocrat of eighteenth-century Japan, once asked his tea master toaccompany him on a visit to Edo (later Tokyo), where he was to stay for a while.He wanted to show off to his fellow courtiers his retainer's skill in the rituals of the tea ceremony. Now, the tea master knew everything there was to know aboutthe tea ceremony, but little else; he was a peaceful man. He dressed, however,like a samurai, as his high position required.One day, as the tea master was walking in the big city, he was accosted by asamurai who challenged him to a duel. The tea master was not a swordsman andtried to explain this to the samurai, but the man refused to listen. To turn thechallenge down would disgrace both the tea master's family and LordYamanouchi. He had to accept, though that meant certain death. And accept hedid, requesting only that the duel be put off to the next day. His wish wasgranted.In panic, the tea master hurried to the nearest fencing school. If he were todie, he wanted to learn how to die honorably. To see the fencing masterordinarily required letters of introduction, but the tea master was so insistent, andso clearly terrified, that at last he was given an interview. The fencing masterlistened to his story.However, he perceived now that it did not greatly matter what kind of soldiershe was going to fight, so long as they fought, which fact no one disputed.There was a more serious problem. He lay in his bunk pondering upon it. Hetried to mathematically prove to himself that he would not run from a battle....A little panic-fear grew in his mind. As his imagination went forward to afight, he saw hideous possibilities. He contemplated the lurking menaces ofthe future, and failed in an effort to see himself standing stoutly in the midstof them. He recalled his visions of broken-bladed glory, but in the shadow ofthe impending tumult he suspected them to be impossible pictures. He sprangfrom the bunk and began to pace nervously to and fro. "Good Lord, what's th'matter with me?" he said aloud. He felt that in this crisis his laws of life wereuseless. Whatever he had learned of himself was here of no avail. He was anunknown quantity. He saw that he would again be obliged to experiment ashe had in early youth. He must accumulate information of himself, andmeanwhile he resolved to remain close upon his guard lest those qualities ofwhich he knew nothing should everlastingly disgrace him. "Good Lord!" herepeated in dismay.... For days he