up every morning in his dressing room to reassure the actor ofhis undying love and admiration for his work—von Sternberg did this withoutcomplaint. He asked that the director take him to lunch every day and listen tohis ideas about the film—von Sternberg indulged him in this, listening patientlyto Jannings’s horrible suggestions. If von Sternberg showed attention to anyother actor, Jannings would throw a jealous fit, and von Sternberg would have toact the role of the contrite spouse. Letting him have his way on these pettymatters, he took much of the bite out of Jannings’s strategy. On the set, he wouldnot become entangled in any battles. But since time was of the essence, he wouldinevitably have to trick the actor into doing what he wanted.When for some unknown reason Jannings refused to pass through a doorwayand make his entrance into a scene, von Sternberg set up the hottest lightavailable to boil the back of his neck every time Jannings stood there, forcinghim to pass through. When Jannings declaimed his first scene in the mostridiculously elevated German, von Sternberg congratulated him for his fine toneand said he would be the only person in the film to talk like that, which wouldmake him stand out and look bad, but so be it. Jannings quickly dropped thehaughty accent. Whenever he went into a pout and remained in his room, vonSternberg would get the word passed to him that the director was lavishingattention on Marlene Dietrich, which would promptly make the jealous actorhurry to the set to compete for attention. Scene by scene, von Sternbergmaneuvered him into the position he desired, managing to extract out ofJannings perhaps the greatest performance of his career.As previously discussed in chapter 2 (page 72), Daniel Everett and his familymoved to the heart of the Amazon in 1977, to live among people known as the Pirahã. Everett and his wife were missionaries, and their task was to learn thePirahã language—which was then considered the hardest in the world todecipher—and to translate the Bible into their indigenous tongue. Slowly,Everett made progress, using the various devices he had been taught in histraining in linguistics.He had studied in depth the works of the great MIT linguist Noam Chomsky,who advocated the idea that all languages are essentially related becausegrammar itself is hardwired into the human brain, and is part of our genetic code.This would mean that by their nature all languages share the same features.Convinced that Chomsky was correct, Everett worked hard to find theseuniversal features in Pirahã. Over the years of studying it, however, he began tofind many exceptions to Chomsky’s theory, and this troubled him.After much thought, Everett came to the conclusion that the Pirahã languagereflected many peculiarities of their life in the jungle. He determined, forinstance, that their culture placed a supreme value on “immediacy ofexperience”—what was not before their eyes did not exist, and therefore therewere almost no words or concepts for things outside immediate experience. Inelaborating this concept, he theorized that the basic features of all languages arenot simply