remarkably relaxedspirit.The chief navigator would occasionally glance at the night sky or theposition of the sun, but mostly he talked with the others or stared straight ahead.Sometimes one of the men would lie belly down in the middle of the outriggercanoe and report some information he had gleaned. In general they gave theimpression of being passengers on a train, serenely taking in the passing scenery.They seemed even calmer at night. When they were supposedly getting closer totheir destination, they would become slightly more alert. They would follow thepaths of birds in the sky; they would look deeply into the water, which theywould sometimes cup in their hands and smell. When they arrived at theirdestination, it was all with the air of pulling into the train station on time. Theyseemed to know exactly how long it would take and how many supplies wererequired for the voyage. Along the way, they would make perfect adjustments toany changes in weather or currents.Curious as to how this was possible, some Westerners asked to be initiatedinto their secrets, and over the decades such travelers managed to piece togetherthe system the Islanders used. As these Westerners discovered, one of theirprincipal means of navigation was following the paths of stars in the night sky.Over the course of centuries, they had devised a chart comprising the path offourteen different constellations. These constellations, along with the sun and themoon, described arcs in the sky that could translate into thirty-two differentdirections around the circle of the horizon. These arcs remained the same, nomatter the season. From their own island, they could map out the location of allof the islands in their area by locating what stars they should be under atparticular moments at night, and they knew how this position would change toanother star as they traveled toward their destination. The Islanders had no another star as they traveled toward their destination. The Islanders had nowriting system. Apprentice navigators simply had to memorize this elaboratemap, which was in continual motion.During the day, they would chart a course by the sun. Toward the middle ofthe day they could read the exact direction they were headed in by the shadowsthat were cast on the mast. At dawn or at sunset they could use the moon, or thestars sinking below the horizon or starting to rise. To help them measure thedistance they had covered, they would choose an island somewhere off to theside as a reference point. By following the stars in the sky they could calculatewhen they would be passing by this reference island, and how much timeremained to reach their destination.As part of this system, they envisioned that their canoe was completely still—the stars moved above them, and the islands in the ocean were moving towardand then away from them as they passed them. Acting as if the canoe werestationary made it easier to calculate their position within their reference system.Although they knew that islands did not move, after many years of traveling thisway, they would literally experience the trip as