such physical explanationsmiss the point. Our dominance, our mastery does not stem from our hands butfrom our brains, from our fashioning the mind into the most powerful instrumentknown in nature—far more powerful than any claw. And at the root of this mental transformation are two simple biological traits—the visual and the social—that primitive humans leveraged into power.Our earliest ancestors were descended from primates who thrived formillions of years in a treetop environment, and who in the process had evolvedone of the most remarkable visual systems in nature. To move quickly andefficiently in such a world, they developed extremely sophisticated eye andmuscle coordination. Their eyes slowly evolved into a full-frontal position on theface, giving them binocular, stereoscopic vision. This system provides the braina highly accurate three-dimensional and detailed perspective, but is rathernarrow. Animals that possess such vision—as opposed to eyes on the side or halfside—are generally efficient predators like owls or cats. They use this powerfulsight to home in on prey in the distance. Tree-living primates evolved this visionfor a different purpose—to navigate branches, and to spot fruits, berries, andinsects with greater effectiveness. They also evolved elaborate color vision.When our earliest human ancestors left the trees and moved to the opengrasslands of the savanna, they adopted an upright stance. Possessing alreadythis powerful visual system, they could see far into the distance (giraffes andelephants might stand taller, but their eyes are on the sides, giving them insteadpanoramic vision). This allowed them to spot dangerous predators far away onthe horizon and detect their movements even in twilight. Given a few seconds orminutes, they could plot a safe retreat. At the same time, if they focused on whatwas nearest at hand, they could identify all kinds of important details in theirenvironment—footprints and signs of passing predators, or the colors and shapesof rocks that they could pick up and perhaps use as tools.In the treetops, this powerful vision was built for speed—seeing and reactingquickly. On the open grassland, it was the opposite. Safety and finding foodrelied upon slow, patient observation of the environment, on the ability to pickout details and focus on what they might mean. Our ancestors’ survivaldepended on the intensity of their attention. The longer and harder they looked,the more they could distinguish between an opportunity and a danger. If theysimply scanned the horizon quickly they could see a lot more, but this wouldoverload the mind with information—too many details for such sharp vision.The human visual system is not built for scanning, as a cow’s is, but for depth offocus.Animals are locked in a perpetual present. They can learn from recent events,but they are easily distracted by what is in front of their eyes. Slowly, over agreat period of time, our ancestors overcame this basic animal weakness. Bylooking long enough at any object and refusing to be distracted—even for a few seconds—they could momentarily detach themselves from their immediatesurroundings. In this way they could notice patterns, make generalizations, andthink ahead. They had the mental distance to think and reflect, even on thesmallest scale.These