they werefrom Benjamin, and he would print them. In this way, he would have the lastlaugh. After much thinking, he decided upon the perfect character to create: ayoung female widow named Silence Dogood who had lots of strong opinionsabout life in Boston, many of them rather absurd. To make this believable,Benjamin spent long hours imagining a detailed past for her. He thought sodeeply into the character that she began to come alive within him. He could hearher way of thinking, and soon there emerged a very realistic writing voice all herown.He sent the first, rather lengthy letter to The Courant and watched withamusement as his brother published it and added a note in the newspaper askingfor more letters from her. James probably suspected it was the work of someestablished writer in town using a pseudonym—the letter was so witty andsatirical—but he clearly had no idea it was from Benjamin. James continuedpublishing the subsequent letters, and they quickly became the most popular partof The Courant.Benjamin’s responsibilities at the shop began to grow, and he proved to be Benjamin’s responsibilities at the shop began to grow, and he proved to bequite an adept editor for the newspaper as well. Feeling proud of all hisprecocious achievements, one day he could not help himself—he confessed toJames that he was the author of the Dogood letters. Expecting some praise forthis, he was surprised by James’s vitriolic response—his brother did not likebeing lied to. To make matters worse, over the next few months he turnedincreasingly cold and even abusive to Benjamin. It soon became impossible towork for him, and by the fall of 1723, feeling somewhat desperate, Benjamindecided to flee Boston, turning his back on brother and family.After several weeks of wandering he ended up in Philadelphia, determined tosettle there. He was only seventeen, with virtually no money and no contacts, butfor some reason he felt full of hope. In the five years working for his brother hehad learned more about the business than men twice his age. He was fiercelydisciplined and ambitious. And he was a talented and successful writer to boot.With no more limitations on his freedom, Philadelphia would be his to conquer.Surveying the scene in his first few days there, his confidence only increased.The two printing shops in town at the time were well below the level of anythingin Boston, and the writing in the local papers was abysmal. This meant endlessopportunities to fill a void and make his way.Sure enough, within a few weeks he managed to secure a position at one ofthe two printing shops in town, owned by a man named Samuel Keimer.Philadelphia was still relatively small and provincial at the time—word spreadquickly of the newcomer and his literary skills.The governor of the colony of Pennsylvania, William Keith, had ambitionsof transforming Philadelphia into a cultural center, and was not happy with thetwo established printing businesses. Hearing of Benjamin Franklin and of hiswriting talent, he sought him out. Clearly impressed with the young man’sintelligence, he urged him to start his own