aboxing judge. Freddie’s older brother began learning the sport at an early age,and when Freddie was six he was promptly taken to the local gym in southBoston to begin a rigorous apprenticeship in the sport. He trained with a coachseveral hours a day, six days a week.By the age of fifteen he felt like he was burned out. He made more and moreexcuses to avoid going to the gym. One day his mother sensed this and said tohim, “Why do you fight anyway? You just get hit all the time. You can’t fight.”He was used to the constant criticism from his father and brothers, but to hearsuch a frank assessment from his mother had a bracing effect. Clearly, she sawhis older brother as the one destined for greatness. Now Freddie determined thathe would somehow prove her wrong. He returned to his training regimen with avengeance. He discovered within himself a passion for practice and discipline.He enjoyed the sensation of getting better, the trophies that began to pile up, and,more than anything, the fact that he could now actually beat his brother. His lovefor the sport was rekindled. for the sport was rekindled.As Freddie now showed the most promise of the brothers, his father took himto Las Vegas to help further his career. There, at the age of eighteen, he met thelegendary coach Eddie Futch and began to train under him. It all looked verypromising—he was chosen for the United States boxing team and began to climbup the ranks. Before long, however, he hit another wall. He would learn the mosteffective maneuvers from Futch and practice them to perfection, but in an actualbout it was another story. As soon as he got hit in the ring, he would revert tofighting instinctually; his emotions would get the better of him. His fights wouldturn into brawls over many rounds, and he would often lose.After a few years, Futch told Roach it was time to retire. But boxing hadbeen his whole life; retire and do what? He continued to fight and to lose, untilfinally he could see the writing on the wall and retired. He took a job intelemarketing and began to drink heavily. Now he hated the sport—he had givenit so much and had nothing to show for his efforts. Almost in spite of himself,one day he returned to Futch’s gym to watch his friend Virgil Hill spar with aboxer about to fight for a title. Both fighters trained under Futch, but there wasnobody in Hill’s corner helping him, so Freddie brought him water and gave himadvice. He showed up the following day to help Hill again, and soon became aregular at Futch’s gym. He was not being paid, so he kept his telemarketing job,but something in him smelled opportunity—and he was desperate. He showed upon time and stayed later than anyone else. Knowing Futch’s techniques so well,he could teach them to all of the fighters. His responsibilities began to grow.In the back of his mind he could not shake his resentment of