will work against you: it says that you can bepushed around, discouraged, and obstructed. If you have never been willing to fight back before, no threatening gesture you make will be credible. Understand:there is great value in letting people know that when necessary you can let go ofyour niceness and be downright difficult and nasty. A few clear, violentdemonstrations will suffice. Once people see you as a fighter, they will approachyou with a little fear in their hearts. And as Machiavelli said, it is more useful tobe feared than to be loved. Authority: When opponents are unwilling to fight with you, it is becausethey think it is contrary to their interests, or because you have misledthem into thinking so.--Sun-tzu (fourth century B.C.)REVERSALThe purpose of strategies of deterrence is to discourage attack, and a threateningpresence or action will usually do the job. In some situations, though, you canmore safely achieve the same thing by doing the opposite: play dumb andunassuming. Seem inoffensive, or already defeated, and people may leave youalone. A harmless front can buy you time: that is how Claudius survived theviolent, treacherous world of Roman politics on his way to becoming emperor--he seemed too innocuous to bother with. This strategy needs patience, though,and is not without risk: you are deliberately making yourself the lamb among thewolves.In general, you have to keep your attempts at intimidation under control. Becareful not to become intoxicated by the power fear brings: use it as a defense intimes of danger, not as your offense of choice. In the long run, frighteningpeople creates enemies, and if you fail to back up your tough reputation withvictories, you will lose credibility. If your opponent gets angry enough to decideto play the same game back at you, you may also escalate a squabble into a retaliatory war. Use this strategy with caution. TRADE SPACE FOR TIMETHE NONENGAGEMENT STRATEGYRetreat in the face of a strong enemy is a sign not of weakness but of strength. Byresisting the temptation to respond to an aggressor, you buy yourself valuabletime--time to recover, to think, to gain perspective. Let your enemies advance;time is more important than space. By refusing to fight, you infuriate them andfeed their arrogance. They will soon overextend themselves and start makingmistakes. Time will reveal them as rash and you as wise. Sometimes you canaccomplish most by doing nothing.RETREAT TO ADVANCEIn the early 1930s, Mao Tse-tung (1893-1976) was a rising star in the ChineseCommunist Party. A civil war had broken out between the Communists and theNationalists; Mao led campaigns against the Nationalists, using guerrilla tacticsto beat them time and again, despite being greatly outnumbered. He also servedas the chairman of the fledgling Chinese Communist government, and hisprovocative essays on strategy and philosophy were widely read.Then a power struggle broke out among the Communists: a group of Soviet-educated intellectuals known as the 28 Bolsheviks tried to gain control of theparty. They despised Mao, seeing his taste for guerrilla warfare as a sign oftimidity and weakness and his advocacy of a peasant