himunbearably arrogant, and Franklin Roosevelt despised him; time and again thetwo leaders tried to persuade him to accept shared control of Free France. Buthis response was always the same: he would not compromise. He would notaccept anything less than sole leadership. In negotiating sessions he wasdownright rude, to the point where he would sometimes walk out, making itclear that for him it was all or nothing.Churchill and Roosevelt cursed de Gaulle's name, ruing the day they had lethim take any position at all. They even talked about demoting him and forcinghim out of the picture. But they always backed down, and in the end they gavehim what he wanted. To do otherwise would mean a public scandal in delicatetimes and would disrupt their relations with the French underground. Theywould be demoting a man whom much of the public had come to revere.Understand: if you are weak and ask for little, little is what you will get. Butif you act strong, making firm, even outrageous demands, you will create theopposite impression: people will think that your confidence must be based onsomething real. You will earn respect, which in turn will translate into leverage.Once you are able to establish yourself in a stronger position, you can take thisfurther by refusing to compromise, making it clear that you are willing to walkaway from the table--an effective form of coercion. The other side may call yourbluff, but you make sure there's a price to pay for this--bad publicity, forinstance. And if in the end you do compromise a little, it will still be a lot lessthan the compromises they would have forced on you if they could.The great British diplomat and writer Harold Nicholson believed there were two kinds of negotiators: warriors and shopkeepers. Warriors use negotiations asa way to gain time and a stronger position. Shopkeepers operate on the principlethat it is more important to establish trust, to moderate each side's demands andcome to a mutually satisfying settlement. Whether in diplomacy or in business,the problem arises when shopkeepers assume they are dealing with anothershopkeeper only to find they are facing a warrior.It would be helpful to know beforehand which kind of negotiator you face.The difficulty is that skillful warriors will make themselves masters of disguise:at first they will seem sincere and friendly, then will reveal their warrior naturewhen it is too late. In resolving a conflict with an enemy you do not know well,it is always best to protect yourself by playing the warrior yourself: negotiatewhile advancing. There will always be time to back off and fix things if you gotoo far. But if you fall prey to a warrior, you will be unable to recoup anything.In a world in which there are more and more warriors, you must be willing towield the sword as well, even if you are a shopkeeper at heart. Authority: Let us not consider ourselves victorious until the day afterbattle, nor defeated until four days later.... Let us always carry the swordin one hand and the olive branch