of battle, the French got endless raids andpinprick attacks that came out of nowhere, a continuous threat that graduallybuilt into panic. While thousands of soldiers fell to disease, many more simplylost the will to fight.It is human nature to not be able to endure any kind of void. We hate silence,long stretches of inactivity, loneliness. (Perhaps this is related to our fear of thatfinal void, our own death.) We have to fill and occupy empty space. By givingpeople nothing to hit, being as vaporous as possible, you play upon this humanweakness. Infuriated at the absence not just of a fight but of any kind ofinteraction at all, people will tend to chase madly after you, losing all power ofstrategic thought. It is the elusive side, no matter how weak or small its force,that controls the dynamic. The bigger the enemy, the better this strategy works: struggling to reach you,the oversize opponent presents juicy targets for you to hit. To create themaximum psychological disturbance, you must make your attacks small butrelentless, keeping your enemy's anger and frustration at a constant boil. Makeyour void complete: empty negotiations, talks leading nowhere, time passingwithout either victory or defeat. In a world of accelerated pace and activity, thisstrategy will have a powerfully debilitating effect on people's nerves. The lessthey can hit, the harder they will fall.Most wars are wars of contact, both forces striving to keep in touch.... TheArab war should be a war of detachment: to contain the enemy by the silentthreat of a vast unknown desert, not disclosing themselves till the moment ofattack.... From this theory came to be developed ultimately an unconscioushabit of never engaging the enemy at all. This chimed with the numerical pleaof never giving the enemy's soldier a target.--T. E. Lawrence, The Seven Pillars of Wisdom (1926)KEYS TO WARFAREOver the centuries organized war--in all its infinite variations, from primitive tomodern, Asian to Western--has always tended to follow a certain logic, which isso universal as almost to seem inherent to the process. The logic is as follows: Aleader decides to take his country to war and raises an army for that purpose.That army's goal is to meet and defeat the enemy in a decisive battle that willforce a surrender and favorable peace terms. The strategist guiding the campaignmust deal with a specific area, the theater of war. This area is most oftenrelatively limited; maneuvering in vast open spaces complicates the possibilityof bringing the war to closure. Working within the theater of war, then, thestrategist contrives to bring his army to the decisive battle in a way that willsurprise the enemy or put it at a disadvantage--it is cornered, or attacked fromboth front and rear, or must fight uphill. To keep his forces strong enough todeliver a mortal blow, he concentrates them rather than dispersing them. Oncebattle begins, the army will naturally form a flank and rear that it must protectagainst encirclement, as well as lines of communication and supply. It may takeseveral battles to end the war, as each side