object. You anarchists should makeit clear that you are perfectly determined to make a clean sweep of the wholesocial creation......What is one to say to an act of destructive ferocity soabsurd as to be incomprehensible, inexplicable, almost unthinkable, in fact,mad? Madness alone is truly terrifying, inasmuch as you cannot placate iteither by threats, persuasion, or bribes. Moreover, I am a civilized man. Iwould never dream of directing you to organize a mere butchery even if Iexpected the best results from it. But I wouldn't expect from a butchery theresults I want. Murder is always with us. It is almost an institution. Thedemonstration must be against learning--science. But not every science willdo. The attack must have all the shocking senselessness of gratuitousblasphemy...."THE SECRET AGENT, JOSEPH CONRAD, 1857-1924Narodnaya Volia aimed principally at the government but was willing to killcivilians in the process. The fall of the czarist government was worth a few liveslost, and in the end the bombs were less deadly than their alternative, which wascivil war. At the very least, Narodnaya Volia would show the Russian people that the government was not the untouchable monolithic power that it made itselfseem; it was vulnerable. The group's members understood that the regime wasquite likely to be able to liquidate them in time, but they were willing to die fortheir cause.Narodnaya Volia saw that it could use one relatively small event--a bombblast--to set off a chain reaction: fear in the administration would produce harshrepression, which would win the group publicity and sympathy and heighten thegovernment's unpopularity, which would lead to more radicalism, which wouldlead to more repression, and so on until the whole cycle collapsed in turmoil.Narodnaya Volia was weak and small, yet simple but dramatic acts of violencecould give it a disproportionate power to sow chaos and uncertainty, creating theappearance of strength among police and public. In fact, its smallness andinconspicuousness gave it a tremendous edge: at enormous expense, acumbersome force of thousands of police would have to search out a tiny,clandestine band that had the advantages of mobility, surprise, and relativeinvisibility. Besides giving the terrorists the chance to present themselves asheroic underdogs, the asymmetry of forces made them almost impossible tofight.This asymmetry brings war to its ultimate extreme: the smallest number ofpeople waging war against an enormous power, leveraging their smallness anddesperation into a potent weapon. The dilemma that all terrorism presents, andthe reason it attracts so many and is so potent, is that terrorists have a great dealless to lose than the armies arrayed against them, and a great deal to gain throughterror.It is often argued that terrorist groups like Narodnaya Volia are doomed tofailure: inviting severe repression, they play into the hands of the authorities,who can effectively claim carte blanche to fight this threat--and in the end theybring about no real change. But this argument misses the point and misreadsterrorism. Narodnaya Volia awakened millions of Russians to its cause, and itstechniques were copied around the world. It also profoundly unbalanced theczarist regime, which responded irrationally and heavy-handedly, devotingresources to