headed, the more room you have to maneuver them intocorners.Everyone wants something without having any idea how to obtain it, and thereally intriguing aspect of the situation is that nobody quite knows how toachieve what he desires. But because I know what I want and what the othersare capable of I am completely prepared.--Prince Klemens von Metternich (1773-1859)KEYS TO WARFAREConflict and confrontation are generally unpleasant affairs that churn upunpleasant emotions. Out of a desire to avoid such unpleasantness, people willoften try to be nice and conciliatory to those around them, in the belief that thatwill elicit the same response in return. But so often experience proves this logicto be wrong: over time, the people you treat nicely will take you for granted.They will see you as weak and exploitable. Being generous does not elicitgratitude but creates either a spoiled child or someone who resents behaviorperceived as charity.In gratitude for his acquittal, Orestes dedicated an altar to Warlike Athene;but the Erinnyes threatened, if the judgement were not reversed, to let fall adrop of their own hearts' blood which would bring barrenness upon the soil,blight the crops, and destroy all the offspring of Athens. Athene neverthelesssoothed their anger by flattery: acknowledging them to be far wiser thanherself, she suggested that they should take up residence in a grotto atAthens, where they would gather such throngs of worshippers as they couldnever hope to find elsewhere. Hearth-altars proper to Underworld deitiesshould be theirs, as well as sober sacrifices, torchlight libations, first-fruitsoffered after the consummation of marriage or the birth of children, and evenseats in the Erechtheum. If they accepted this invitation she would decree thatno house where worship was withheld from them might prosper; but they, inreturn, must undertake to invoke fair winds for her ships, fertility for herland, and fruitful marriages for her people--also rooting out the impious, sothat she might see fit to grant Athens victory in war. The Erinnyes, after ashort deliberation, graciously agreed to these proposals.THE GREEK MYTHS, VOL. 2, ROBERT GRAVES, 1955Those who believe against the evidence that niceness breeds niceness inreturn are doomed to failure in any kind of negotiation, let alone in the game of life. People respond in a nice and conciliatory way only when it is in theirinterest and when they have to do so. Your goal is to create that imperative bymaking it painful for them to fight. If you ease up the pressure out of a desire tobe conciliatory and gain their trust, you only give them an opening toprocrastinate, deceive, and take advantage of your niceness. That is humannature. Over the centuries those who have fought wars have learned this lessonthe hard way.When nations have violated this principle, the results are often tragic. InJune 1951, for example, the U.S. military halted its extremely effective offensiveagainst the Chinese People's Liberation Army in Korea because the Chinese andthe North Koreans had signaled they were ready to negotiate. Instead they drewout the talks as long as they could while they recovered their forces andstrengthened their