building of the basilica of St. Peter's in Rome, thepreeminent seat of the Catholic Church, but had left the structure unfinished. Leowanted to complete this mighty project, permanently associating it with hisname, but he would need to raise a fair amount of capital to be able to pay forthe best artists to work on it.And so in 1517, Leo launched a campaign to sell indulgences. Then as now,it was Catholic practice for the faithful to confess their sins to their priest, whowould enforce their contrition by assigning them a penance, a kind of worldlypunishment. Today this might simply be a prayer or a counting of the rosary, butpenances were once more severe, including fasts and pilgrimages--or financialpayments known as indulgences. The nobility might pay an indulgence in theform of a saintly relic purchased for their church, a large expense that wouldtranslate into the promise of a reduced time spent in purgatory after death(purgatory being a kind of halfway house for those not evil enough for hell, notgood enough for heaven, so forced to wait); the lower classes might pay asmaller fee to buy forgiveness for their sins. Indulgences were a major source of church income.For this particular campaign, Leo unleashed a squadron of expert indulgencesalesmen across Europe, and the money began to pour in. As his chief architectfor the completion of St. Peter's he appointed the great artist Raphael, whoplanned to make the building a splendid work of art, Leo's lasting legacy to theworld. All was going well, until, in October 1517, news reached the pope that apriest named Martin Luther (1483-1546)--some tiresome German theologian--had tacked to the doors of the castle church of Wittenberg a tract called TheNinety-five Theses. Like many important documents of the time, the tract wasoriginally in Latin, but it had been translated into German, printed up, andpassed out among the public--and within a few weeks all Germany seemed tohave read it. The Ninety-five Theses was essentially an attack on the practice ofselling indulgences. It was up to God, not the church, to forgive sinners, Lutherreasoned, and such forgiveness could not be bought. The tract went on to saythat the ultimate authority was Scripture: if the pope could cite Scripture torefute Luther's arguments, the priest would gladly recant them.The pope did not read Luther's writings--he preferred poetry to theologicaldiscussions. And a single German priest surely posed no threat to the use ofindulgences to fund worthy projects, let alone to the church itself. But Lutherseemed to be challenging the church's authority in a broad sense, and Leo knewthat an unchecked heresy could become the center of a sect. Within recentcenturies in Europe, the church had had to put down such dissident sects by theuse of force; better to silence Luther before it was too late.Leo began relatively gently, asking the respected Catholic theologianSilvester Mazzolini, usually known as Prieras, to write an official response toLuther that he hoped would frighten the priest into submission. Prierasproclaimed that the pope was the highest authority in the church, even higherthan Scripture--in