man!" With that, all the seamen fled back to theirown ship. At such a time, one must act like a samurai. For trifling occasionsit is better to accomplish things simply by yelling. By making something moresignificant than it really is and missing one's chance, an affair will not bebrought to a close and there will be no accomplishment at all.HAGAKURE: THE BOOK OF THE SAMURAI, YAMAMOTOTSUNETOMO, 1659-1720Later that day Louis invited Bollate to his private rooms and, lounging on hisbed, began an apparently casual conversation. Drifting into politics, he describedhimself as a supporter of the Duke of Milan's: he would do anything, he said, tohelp the duke expand his power. Then he asked, "Tell me, Christopher, has itbeen reported to you what I said this morning in council? Tell me the truth--wasit not some courtier who told you?" Bollate confessed that he had actually beenin the room during the king's tirade and had heard the king's words himself. Healso protested that the Duke of Milan was a loyal friend of France. Louis repliedthat he had his doubts about the duke and had cause to be angry--but then heimmediately changed the subject to something pleasant, and Bollate eventuallyleft.The next day the king sent three councilors to visit Bollate. Was hecomfortable in his lodgings? Was he happy with his treatment from the king?Was there anything they could do to improve his stay at the French court? Theyalso wanted to know if he was going to pass on the king's words to the duke. Theking, they said, considered Bollate a friend, a confidant; he had merely beenventing his emotions. It meant nothing. Bollate should forget the whole thing.Of course, none of these men--the councilors, the courtiers, Bollate--knewthat the king had done all this deliberately. Louis was certain that the perfidiousambassador--whom he hardly considered a friend, let alone a confidant--wouldreport what he had said in detail to the duke. He knew that the duke was treacherous, and this was precisely how Louis wanted to send him a warning.And it seemed the message got through: for the next several years, the duke wasan obedient ally.InterpretationThe Spider King was a man who always plotted several moves in advance. Inthis case he knew that if he spoke politely and diplomatically to the ambassadorof his worries about the duke, his words would carry no weight--they wouldseem like whining. If he vented his anger directly to the ambassador, on the otherhand, he would look out of control. A direct thrust is also easily parried: the dukewould just mouth reassurances, and the treachery would go on. By transmittinghis threat indirectly, however, Louis made it stick. That the duke was not meantto know he was angry made his anger truly ominous: it meant he was planningsomething and wanted to keep the duke from suspecting it and knowing his truefeelings. He delivered his threat insidiously to make the duke ponder hisintentions and to instill an uneasy fear.It was thus that, during the 1930s, the diplomacy of Mussolini's Italy wasgreatly enhanced by a