Jin, located in modern Shaanhsi, grew steadily in strength byswallowing small neighbors. There were two small states, Hu and Yu, to itssouth. In the spring of the nineteenth year under King Hui of Zhou (658 B.C), Duke Xian of Jin sent for a trusted minister, Xun Xi, and declared hisintention to attack Hu. "We have little chance to gain advantage," observedXun Xi after a pause. "Hu and Yu have always been very close. When weattack one of them, the other will surely come to its rescue. Pitched one toone, neither of them is our match, but the result is far from certain if we fightboth of them at the same time." "Surely you are not saying we have no way tocope with these two small states?" asked the duke. Xun Xi thought for a whilebefore replying.... "I have thought up a plan by which we will be able tosubdue both Hu and Yu. For the first step we should present the Duke of Yuwith handsome gifts and ask him to lend us a path by which we can attackHu." The duke asked, "But we have just offered gifts to Hu and signed afriendly agreement with it. We can hardly make Yu believe that we want toattack Hu instead of Yu itself." "That is not so difficult to work out," repliedXun Xi. "We may secretly order our men on the border to make raids on Hu.When the men of Hu come to protest, we may use that as a pretext to attackthem. In this way Yu will be convinced of our professed intention." The dukeconsidered it a good plan. Before long, armed conflicts broke out along theJin-Hu border to the south. Thereupon the duke asked, "Now we have goodreason to convince Yu of our intention to attack Hu. But it will not lend thepath to us unless it receives a good profit in return. So what shall we use tobribe the Duke of Yu?" Xun Xi replied, "Though the Duke of Yu is known to bevery greedy, he will not be moved unless our gifts are extremely precious. So why not offer him fine horses from Qu and jade from Chuiji?" The dukelooked reluctant. "But these are the best treasures I have. I can hardly bringmyself to part with them." "I am not surprised by your doubts," said Xun Xi."Nevertheless, we are bound to subdue Hu now that it has lost the shield ofYu. After Hu is conquered, Yu will not be able to survive on its own.Therefore, when you send these gifts to the Duke of Yu, you are simplyconsigning the jade to your external mansion and the horses to your externalstable...."...When Xun Xi was ushered into the court of Yu and presented thegifts, the Duke of Yu's eyes bulged.... "The men of Hu have repeatedly workedup disturbances along our border," [said Xun Xi] . "To protect our peoplefrom the calamity of war, we have exerted the highest restraint and concludeda peace treaty with Hu. Nevertheless, the impudent Hu takes