to certain activities orforms of knowledge. This cannot really be verbalized or explained. It is simply afact of nature. In following this voice you realize your own potential, and satisfyyour deepest longings to create and express your uniqueness. It exists for apurpose, and it is your Life’s Task to bring it to fruition.Because we think well of ourselves, but nonetheless never suppose ourselves capable of producing a painting like one of Raphael’s or a dramatic scene like one of Shakespeare’s,we convince ourselves that the capacity to do so is quite extraordinarily marvelous, a whollyuncommon accident, or, if we are still religiously inclined, a mercy from on high. Thus ourvanity, our self-love, promotes the cult of the genius: for only if we think of him as being veryremote from us, as a miraculum, does he not aggrieve us…. But, aside from thesesuggestions of our vanity, the activity of the genius seems in no way fundamentally differentfrom the activity of the inventor of machines, the scholar of astronomy or history, the masterof tactics. All these activities are explicable if one pictures to oneself people whose thinkingis active in one direction, who employ everything as material, who always zealously observetheir own inner life and that of others, who perceive everywhere models and incentives, whonever tire of combining together the means available to them. Genius too does nothing butlearn first how to lay bricks then how to build, and continually seek for material andcontinually form itself around it. Every activity of man is amazingly complicated, not onlythat of the genius: but none is a ‘miracle.’—FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE CONTEMPORARY MASTER BIOGRAPHIESSantiago Calatrava was born in 1951, in Valencia, Spain. He earned hisarchitecture degree from the Polytechnic University of Valencia, and then wenton to obtain a PhD in civil engineering from the Swiss Federal Institute ofTechnology, in Zurich, Switzerland. Because of his civil engineeringbackground, Calatrava has focused primarily on large-scale public projects suchas bridges, train stations, museums, cultural centers, and sports complexes.Inspired by organic shapes in nature, Calatrava has sought to infuse these publicprojects with a mythic, yet futuristic quality, featuring parts of buildings thatmove and change shape. Among his notable designs are BCE Place Galleria inToronto, Canada (1992), Oriente Railway Station in Lisbon, Portugal (1998), theextension to the Milwaukee Art Museum (2001), the Puente de la Mujer inBuenos Aires, Argentina (2001), Auditorio de Tenerife in Santa Cruz, theCanary Islands (2003), the Athens Olympic Sports Complex (2004), the TurningTorso Tower in Malmo, Sweden (2005), and the Light Railway Bridge inJerusalem, Israel (2008). He is currently designing the Transportation Hub at theWorld Trade Center in New York City, expected to open in 2014. Calatrava isalso a renowned sculptor whose work has been shown in galleries all around theworld. Among his numerous awards, he has received the Gold Medal from theInstitution of Structural Engineers (1992) and the Gold Medal from theAmerican Institute of Architects (2005).Daniel Everett was born in 1951, in Holtville, California. He received a degreein foreign missions from the Moody Bible Institute of Chicago, and became anordained