could allow them to defeat much larger armies, as Alexander the Greatdid in his victories over the Persians. In facing savvy opponents who were alsousing strategy, there developed an upward pressure: to gain an advantage, ageneral had to be even more strategic, more indirect and clever, than the otherside. Over time the arts of generalship became steadily more sophisticated, asmore strategies were invented.Although the word "strategy" itself is Greek in origin, the concept appears inall cultures, in all periods. Solid principles on how to deal with the inevitableaccidents of war, how to craft the ultimate plan, how to best organize the army--all of this can be found in war manuals from ancient China to modern Europe.The counterattack, the flanking or enveloping maneuver, and the arts ofdeception are common to the armies of Genghis Khan, Napoleon, and the Zuluking Shaka. As a whole, these principles and strategies indicate a kind ofuniversal military wisdom, a set of adaptable patterns that can increase thechances for victory."Well, then, my boy, develop your strategy So that prizes in games won't eludeyour grasp. Strategy makes a better woodcutter than strength. Strategy keepsa pilot's ship on course When crosswinds blow it over the wine-blue sea. Andstrategy wins races for charioteers. One type of driver trusts his horses andcar And swerves mindlessly this way and that, All over the course, withoutreining his horses. But a man who knows how to win with lesser horses Keepshis eye on the post and cuts the turn close, And from the start keeps tensionon the reins With a firm hand as he watches the leader." THE ILIAD, HOMER, CIRCA NINTH CENTURY B.C.Perhaps the greatest strategist of them all was Sun-tzu, author of the ancientChinese classic The Art of War. In his book, written probably the fourth centuryB.C., can be found traces of almost all the strategic patterns and principles laterdeveloped over the course of centuries. But what connects them, in fact whatconstitutes the art of war itself in Sun-tzu's eyes, is the ideal of winning withoutbloodshed. By playing on the psychological weaknesses of the opponent, bymaneuvering him into precarious positions, by inducing feelings of frustration and confusion, a strategist can get the other side to break down mentally beforesurrendering physically. In this way victory can be had at a much lower cost.And the state that wins wars with few lives lost and resources squandered is thestate that can thrive over greater periods of time. Certainly most wars are notwaged so rationally, but those campaigns in history that have followed thisprinciple (Scipio Africanus in Spain, Napoleon at Ulm, T. E. Lawrence in thedesert campaigns of World War I) stand out above the rest and serve as the ideal.War is not some separate realm divorced from the rest of society. It is aneminently human arena, full of the best and the worst of our nature. War alsoreflects trends in society. The evolution toward more unconventional, dirtierstrategies--guerrilla warfare, terrorism--mirrors a similar evolution in society,where almost anything goes. The strategies that succeed in war, whetherconventional or