Murphy's Law, giving him enough time to make the worst come topass.During the Seven Years' War (1756-63), Frederick the Great of Prussia wasfaced with Austrian, French, and Russian armies on every side, all determined tocarve him up. A strategist who usually favored aggressive attack, Frederick thistime went on the defensive, crafting his maneuvers to buy himself time and slipthe net his enemies were trying to catch him in. Year after year he managed toavoid disaster, though barely. Then, suddenly, Czarina Elizabeth of Russia died.She had hated Frederick bitterly, but her nephew and successor to the throne,Czar Peter III, was a perverse young boy who had not liked his aunt and whogreatly admired Frederick the Great. He not only pulled Russia out of the war, heallied himself with the Prussians. The Seven Years' War was over; the miracleFrederick needed had come to pass. Had he surrendered at his worst point ortried to fight his way out, he would have lost everything. Instead he maneuveredto create time for Murphy's Law to do its work on his enemies.War is a physical affair, which takes place somewhere specific: generalsdepend on maps and plan strategies to be realized in particular locations. Buttime is just as important as space in strategic thought, and knowing how to usetime will make you a superior strategist, giving an added dimension to yourattacks and defense. To do this you must stop thinking of time as an abstraction:in reality, beginning the minute you are born, time is all you have. It is your only true commodity. People can take away your possessions, but--short of murder--not even the most powerful aggressors can take time away from you unless youlet them. Even in prison your time is your own, if you use it for your ownpurposes. To waste your time in battles not of your choosing is more than just amistake, it is stupidity of the highest order. Time lost can never be regained. Authority: To remain disciplined and calm while waiting for disorder toappear amongst the enemy is the art of self-possession.--Sun-tzu (fourth century B.C.)REVERSALWhen enemies attack you in overwhelming force, instead of retreating you maysometimes decide to engage them directly. You are inviting martyrdom, perhapseven hoping for it, but martyrdom, too, is a strategy, and one of ancient standing:martyrdom makes you a symbol, a rallying point for the future. The strategy willsucceed if you are important enough--if your defeat has symbolic meaning--butthe circumstances must work to highlight the rightness of your cause and theugliness of the enemy's. Your sacrifice must also be unique; too many martyrs,spread over too much time, will spoil the effect. In cases of extreme weakness,when facing an impossibly large enemy, martyrdom can be used to show thatyour side's fighting spirit has not been extinguished, a useful way to keep upmorale. But, in general, martyrdom is a dangerous weapon and can backfire, foryou may no longer be there to see it through, and its effects are too strong to becontrolled. It can also take centuries to work. Even