time your flight buys to turn inward. Let the enemy take landand advance; you will recover and turn the tables when the time comes. Thedecision to retreat shows not weakness but strength. It is the height of strategicwisdom.The essence of retreat is the refusal to engage the enemy in any way,whether psychologically or physically. You may do this defensively, to protectyourself, but it can also be a positive strategy: by refusing to fight aggressiveenemies, you can effectively infuriate and unbalance them.During World War I, England and Germany fought a side war in East Africa,where each of them had a colony. In 1915 the English commander, LieutenantGeneral Jan Smuts, moved against the much smaller German army in GermanEast Africa, led by Colonel Paul von Lettow-Vorbeck. Smuts was hoping for aquick win; as soon as he had finished off the Germans, his troops could move tomore important theaters of war. But von Lettow-Vorbeck refused to engage himand retreated south. Smuts marched in pursuit.Time and again Smuts thought he had von Lettow-Vorbeck cornered, only tofind that the German officer had moved on just hours earlier. As if a drawn by amagnet, Smuts followed von Lettow-Vorbeck across rivers, mountains, andforests. Their supply lines extended over hundreds of miles, his soldiers werenow vulnerable to small, harassing actions from the Germans, which destroyedtheir morale. Bogged down in pestilential jungles, as time went by, Smuts's armywas decimated by hunger and disease, all without ever fighting a real battle. Bythe end of the war, von Lettow-Vorbeck had managed to lead his enemy on afour-year cat-and-mouse chase that had completely tied up valuable Englishforces and yielded them nothing in return.Smuts was a persistent, thorough, aggressive leader who liked to defeat hisopponents through maneuver in the field. Von Lettow-Vorbeck played on this taste: he refused to engage Smuts in frontal battle but stayed enticingly close,just beyond reach, holding out the possibility of engagement so as to keep theEnglishmen pushing forward into the wilderness. Infuriated to no end, Smutscontinued the chase. Von Lettow-Vorbeck used Africa's vast spaces andinhospitable climate to destroy the English.Most people respond to aggression by in some way getting involved with it.It is almost impossible to hold back. By disengaging completely and retreating,you show great power and restraint. Your enemies are desperate for you to react;retreat infuriates and provokes them into further attack. So keep retreating,exchanging space for time. Stay calm and balanced. Let them take the land theywant; like the Germans, lure them into a void of nonaction. They will start tooverextend themselves and make mistakes. Time is on your side, for you are notwasting any of it in useless battles.War is notoriously full of surprises, of unforeseen events that can slow downand ruin even the best-laid plan. Carl von Clausewitz called this "friction." Waris a constant illustration of Murphy's Law: if anything can go wrong, it will. Butwhen you retreat, when you exchange space for time, you are making Murphy'sLaw work for you. So it was with von Lettow-Vorbeck: he set up Smuts as thevictim of