difficult, butwhat actress wasn't? Next she asked to rewrite her lines and, receiving theexpected refusal, ratcheted up the stakes by not budging. Returning the moneyshe had been paid was her campaign's key moment: it subtly shifted the focusfrom a battle with an actress to the script itself. By showing herself ready to giveup so much, she made Zukor begin to wonder more about the dialog than abouther. After his compromise, West made her next maneuver, fighting over theblocking, the camera angles, the pacing of the shots. Her writing had become anaccepted part of the scenery; the battle now was over her directing. Anothercompromise, which translated into another victory. Instead of fighting the studioexecutives on their terms, West had subtly shifted the battle to a field unfamiliarto them--fighting with an actress over the writing and directing of a film. Onsuch terrain, against a smart and seductive woman, the army of Paramount menwas lost and helpless. Your enemies will naturally choose to fight on terrain that is to their liking,that allows them to use their power to best advantage. Cede them such powerand you end up fighting on their terms. Your goal is to subtly shift the conflict toterrain of your choice. You accept the battle but alter its nature. If it is aboutmoney, shift it to something moral. If your opponents want to fight over aparticular issue, reframe the battle to encompass something larger and moredifficult for them to handle. If they like a slow pace, find a way to quicken it.You are not allowing your enemies to get comfortable or fight in their usual way.And an enemy who is lured onto unfamiliar terrain is one who has lost control ofthe dynamic. Once such control slips from his hands, he will compromise,retreat, make mistakes, and effect his own destruction. 3. By early 1864 the American Civil War had settled into a stalemate. Robert E.Lee's Army of Northern Virginia had managed to keep the Union forces awayfrom Richmond, capital of the Confederacy. To the west the Confederates hadestablished an impregnable defensive position at the town of Dalton, Georgia,blocking any Union advance on Atlanta, the key industrial city of the South.President Abraham Lincoln, facing reelection that year and gravely worriedabout his chances if the stalemate continued, decided to name Ulysses S. Grantoverall commander of the Union forces. Here was a man who would go on theoffensive.Let us admit that boldness in war even has its own prerogatives. It must begranted a certain power over and above successful calculations involvingspace, time, and magnitude of forces, for wherever it is superior, it will takeadvantage of its opponent's weakness. In other words, it is a genuinelycreative force. This fact is not difficult to prove even scientifically. Wheneverboldness encounters timidity, it is likely to be the winner, because timidity initself implies a loss of equilibrium. Boldness will be at a disadvantage only inan encounter with deliberate caution, which may be considered bold in itsown right, and is certainly just as powerful and effective; but such cases arerare.