this "catching" occurs,quickly execute a strong attack to defeat the enemy.... There is also a conceptcalled "making one drunk," which is similar to the notion of "catching." Youcan make your opponent feel bored, carefree, or feeble spirited. You shouldstudy these matters well.THE BOOK OF FIVE RINGS, MIYAMOTO MUSASHI, 1584-1645The first step in mastering the counterattack is to master yourself, andparticularly the tendency to grow emotional in conflict. When the great baseballplayer Ted Williams made the major leagues with the Boston Red Sox, he took alook around. He was now a member of an elite--the best hitters in the country.They all had sharp vision, quick reflexes, and strong arms, but relatively few ofthem could control their impatience at the plate--and pitchers preyed on thatweakness, getting them to swing on losing pitches. Williams separated himselfout, and made himself perhaps the greatest pure hitter in baseball history, bydeveloping his patience and a kind of hitter's counterattack: he would wait, andkeep waiting, for the best pitch to swing at. Good pitchers are masters at makinga hitter feel frustrated and emotional, but Williams would not be baited:whatever they did, he would wait for the pitch that was right for him. In fact, heturned the situation around: given his ability to wait, it was the pitcher, notWilliams, who would end up impatient and throwing the wrong pitch as a result.Once you learn patience, your options suddenly expand. Instead of wearing yourself out in little wars, you can save your energy for the right moment, takeadvantage of other people's mistakes, and think clearly in difficult situations.You will see opportunities for counterattack where others see only surrender orretreat.The key to the successful counterattack is staying calm while your opponentgets frustrated and irritable. In sixteenth-century Japan, there emerged a novelway of fighting called Shinkage: the swordsman would begin the fight bymirroring his opponent's every move, copying his every footstep, every blink,every gesture, every twitch. This would drive the enemy crazy, for he would beunable to read the Shinkage samurai's moves or get any sense of what he was upto. At some point he would lose patience and strike out, lowering his guard. TheShinkage samurai would inevitably parry this attack and follow up with a fatalcounterblow.Shinkage samurai believed that the advantage in a life-and-death swordfightlay not in aggression but in passivity. By mirroring their enemy's moves, theycould understand his strategy and thinking. By being calm and observant--patient--they could detect when their opponent had decided to attack; themoment would register in his eyes or in a slight movement of his hands. Themore irritated he became and the harder he tried to hit the Shinkage fighter, thegreater his imbalance and vulnerability. Shinkage samurai were virtuallyunbeatable.Mirroring people--giving back to them just what they give you--is apowerful method of counterattack. In daily life, mirroring and passivity cancharm people, flattering them into lowering their defenses and openingthemselves to attack. It can also irritate and discomfit them. Their thoughtsbecome yours; you are feeding off them like a vampire, your passive frontdisguising the control you are exercising