no different forsomeone who is practicing the Way.—ZEN MASTER HAKUIN IIIABSORB THE MASTER’S POWER: THEMENTOR DYNAMICLife is short, and your time for learning and creativity is limited. Without any guidance, youcan waste valuable years trying to gain knowledge and practice from various sources.Instead, you must follow the example set by Masters throughout the ages and find the propermentor. The mentor-protégé relationship is the most efficient and productive form oflearning. The right mentors know where to focus your attention and how to challenge you.Their knowledge and experience become yours. They provide immediate and realisticfeedback on your work, so you can improve more rapidly. Through an intense person-to-person interaction, you absorb a way of thinking that contains great power and can beadapted to your individual spirit. Choose the mentor who best fits your needs and connectsto your Life’s Task. Once you have internalized their knowledge, you must move on andnever remain in their shadow. Your goal is always to surpass your mentors in mastery andbrilliance. THE ALCHEMY OF KNOWLEDGEGrowing up amid poverty in London, it seemed that the fate of Michael Faraday(1791–1867) was pretty much sealed for him at birth—he would either follow inhis father’s footsteps and become a blacksmith, or he would pursue some othermanual trade. His options were severely limited by his circumstances. Hisparents had ten children to feed and support. The father worked sporadicallybecause of illness, and the family needed additional income. The parents waitedanxiously for the day when young Faraday would turn twelve and could get ajob, or begin some kind of apprenticeship.There was one trait, however, that marked him as different and waspotentially troubling—he had an extremely active mind, one that was perhapsunsuited for a career that would entail mostly physical labor. Some of his mentalrestlessness was inspired by the peculiar religion his family belonged to—theywere Sandemanians, a sect of Christianity. Its adherents believed that God’spresence was manifested in every living thing and every natural phenomenon.By communing with God on a daily basis and getting as inwardly close to him aspossible, they could see and feel his presence everywhere in the world.Young Faraday was steeped in this philosophy. When he was not doingerrands and chores for his mother, he would wander the streets of centralLondon, observing the world around him with utmost intensity. Nature, itseemed to him, was full of secrets that he wanted to ponder and unravel. Becausehe was taught that the divine presence was everywhere, everything interestedhim, and his curiosity was limitless. He would ask endless questions of hisparents, or anyone he could find, about plants or minerals or any seeminglyinexplicable occurrence in nature. He seemed hungry for knowledge andfrustrated by his lack of means to get it.One day he wandered into a nearby shop that bound and sold books. Thesight of so many shiny books on the shelves astounded him. His own schoolinghad been minimal, and he had really only known one book in his life, the Bible.The Sandemanians believed that the Scripture was the living embodiment of theLord’s will, and contained something of