notqualitative. And, as in classical terrorism, these analysts continue, Al Qaeda isultimately doomed to failure: the U.S. counterattack on Afghanistan destroyedtheir operational base, and they are now the targets of the unbending will of theAmerican government, whose invasion of Iraq was a stage in a grand strategy torid the region of terrorism in general. But there is another way to look at theattack, keeping in mind the chain reaction that is always the terrorist's goal.Tests(1) How can tearing up a picture with a Katzu! destroy a living monster?(2) That devil-cat is right now rampaging among the people, bewitching andkilling them. Kill it quickly with a Katzu! Show the proof!SAMURAI ZEN: THE WARRIOR KOANS, TREVOR LEGGETT, 1985When a man has learned within his heart what fear and trembling mean, he issafeguarded against any terror produced by outside influences. Let thethunder roll and spread terror a hundred miles around: he remains socomposed and reverent in spirit that the sacrificial rite is not interrupted.This is the spirit that must animate leaders and rulers of men--a profoundinner seriousness from which all outer terrors glance off harmlessly. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.The full economic impact of 9/11 is hard to measure, but the ripple effect ofthe attack is by any standard immense and undeniable: substantial increases insecurity costs, including the funding of new government programs for thatpurpose; enormous military expenditures on the invasions of two separatenations; a depressive effect on the stock market (always particularly susceptibleto the psychology of panic) and a consequent injury to consumer confidence; hitson specific industries, such as travel and tourism; and the reverberating effect ofall these on the global economy. The attack also had tremendous politicaleffects--in fact, the American elections of 2002 and 2004 were arguablydetermined by it. And as the chain reaction has continued to play out, a growing rift has emerged between the United States and its European allies. (Terrorismoften implicitly aims to create such splits in alliances and in public opinion aswell, where hawks and doves line up.) September 11 has also had a definite andobvious impact on the American way of life, leading directly to a curtailment ofthe civil liberties that are the distinguishing mark of our country. Finally--thoughthis is impossible to measure--it has had a depressive and chilling effect on theculture at large."It appears to me that this mystery is considered insoluble, for the veryreason which should cause it to be regarded as easy of solution--I mean forthe outre character of its features. The police are confounded by the seemingabsence of motive--not for the murder itself--but for the atrocity of themurder.... They have fallen into the gross but common error of confoundingthe unusual with the abstruse. But it is by these deviations from the plane ofthe ordinary, that reason feels its way, if at all, in its search for the true. Ininvestigations such as we are now pursuing, it should not be so much asked'what has occurred,' as 'what has occurred that has never occurred before.' Infact, the facility with which I