maneuver. This isparticularly devastating with a target whose ego is delicate.A common way of using the flanking maneuver in war is to get your enemiesto expose themselves on a weak salient. This means maneuvering them ontoground or luring them to advance in such a way that their front is narrow andtheir flanks are long--a delicious target for a side attack.In 1519, Hernan Cortes landed with a small army in eastern Mexico,planning to realize his dream of conquering the Aztec Empire. But first he had toconquer his own men, particularly a small yet vocal group of supporters ofDiego de Velazquez, the governor of Cuba, who had sent Cortes on no more thana scouting mission and who coveted the conquest of Mexico himself.Velazquez's supporters caused trouble for Cortes at every step, constantlyconspiring against him. One bone of contention was gold, which the Spanishwere to collect for delivery to the king of Spain. Cortes had been letting hissoldiers barter for gold but then had been using that gold to buy food. Thispractice, Velazquez's men argued, must end.Appearing to concede, Cortes suggested the Velazquez men appoint atreasurer. They quickly named one of their own, and with their help this manbegan to collect everyone's gold. This policy, naturally, proved extremelyunpopular with the soldiers, who were braving enormous dangers for littlebenefit. They complained bitterly--but Cortes just pointed to the men who hadinsisted on this policy in the name of the governor of Cuba. He personally, ofcourse, had never been in favor of it. Soon the Velazquez men were universallyhated, and Cortes, at the urgent request of the other soldiers, gladly rescinded thepolicy. From then on, the conspirators could get nowhere with the men. Theywere exposed and despised.Cortes used this strategy often to deal with dissenters and troublemakers. Atfirst he would seem to go along with their ideas, would even encourage them totake things further. In essence, he would get his enemies to expose themselveson a weak salient, where their selfish or unpopular ideas could be revealed. Nowhe had a target to hit.When people present their ideas and arguments, they often censorthemselves, trying to appear more conciliatory and flexible than is actually thecase. If you attack them directly from the front, you end up not getting very far,because there isn't much there to aim at. Instead try to make them go further withtheir ideas, giving you a bigger target. Do this by standing back, seeming to goalong, and baiting them into moving rashly ahead. (You can also make them emotional, pushing their buttons, getting them to say more than they had wantedto.) They will expose themselves on a weak salient, advancing an indefensibleargument or position that will make them look ridiculous. The key is never tostrike too early. Give your opponents time to hang themselves.Inner truth. Pigs and fishes. Good fortune. It furthers one to cross the greatwater. Perseverance furthers. Pigs and fishes are the least intelligent of allanimals and therefore the most difficult to influence. The force of inner truthmust grow great indeed before its influence