would grow frustrated, and the more frustrated he was, the more hewould reach for Ali, opening up his guard and exposing himself to the jab fromnowhere that might knock him out. Ali's style ran counter to conventionalboxing wisdom in almost every way, yet its unorthodoxy was exactly what madeit so difficult to combat.Ali's unconventional tactics in the first Liston fight began well before thebout. His irritating antics and public taunts--a form of dirty warfare--weredesigned to infuriate the champion, cloud his mind, fill him with a murderoushatred that would make him come close enough for Ali to knock him out. Ali'sbehavior at the weigh-in, which seemed genuinely insane, was later revealed aspure performance. Its effect was to make Liston unconsciously defensive, unsureof what this man would do in the ring. In the opening round, as in so many of hissubsequent fights, Ali lulled Liston by fighting defensively, an ordinary tacticwhen facing a boxer like Liston. That drew Liston in closer and closer--and nowthe extraordinary move, the speedy punch out of nowhere, had double the force.Unable to reach Ali with his punches, disconcerted by the dancing, the loweringof the hands, the irritating taunting, Liston made mistake after mistake. And Alifeasted on his opponents' mistakes.Understand: as children and young adults, we are taught to conform tocertain codes of behavior and ways of doing things. We learn that being differentcomes with a social price. But there is a greater price to pay for slavishlyconforming: we lose the power that comes from our individuality, from a way ofdoing things that is authentically our own. We fight like everyone else, whichmakes us predictable and conventional.The chief characteristic of fashion is to impose and suddenly to accept as anew rule or norm what was, until a minute before, an exception or whim, thento abandon it again after it has become a commonplace, everybody's "thing."Fashion's task, in brief, is to maintain a continual process of standardization:putting a rarity or novelty into general and universal use, then passing on toanother rarity or novelty when the first has ceased to be such.... Only modernart, because it expresses the avant-garde as its own extreme or suprememoment, or simply because it is the child of the romantic aesthetic oforiginality and novelty, can consider as the typical--and perhaps sole--formof the ugly what we might call ci-devant beauty, the beauty of the ancienregime, ex-beauty. Classical art, through the method of imitation and the practice of repetition, tends toward the ideal of renewing, in the sense ofintegration and perfection. But for the modern art in general, and for avant-garde in particular, the only irremediable and absolute aesthetic error is atraditional artistic creation, an art that imitates and repeats itself. From theanxious modern longing for what Remy de Gourmont chose to call,suggestively, "le beau inedit" derives that sleepless and feveredexperimentation which is one of the most characteristic manifestations of theavant-garde; its assiduous labor is an eternal web of Penelope, with theweave of its forms remade every day and unmade every night. Perhaps EzraPound intended to suggest