short of money, he had todelay. Elizabeth had bought herself more time.Meanwhile, much to the chagrin of Philip's finance ministers, the kingrefused to scale back the size of the invading armada. Building it might takelonger, but he would just borrow more money. Seeing his fight with England as areligious crusade, he would not be deterred by mere matters of finance.Achilles now routed the Trojans and pursued them towards the city, but hiscourse, too, was run. Poseidon and Apollo, pledged to avenge the deaths ofCycnus and Troilus, and to punish certain insolent boasts that Achilles haduttered over Hector's corpse, took counsel together. Veiled with cloud andstanding by the Scaean gate, Apollo sought out Paris in the thick of battle,turned his bow and guided the fatal shaft. It struck the one vulnerable part ofAchilles's body, the right heel, and he died in agony.THE GREEK MYTHS, VOL. 2, ROBERT GRAVES, 1955While working to ruin Philip's credit, Elizabeth put an important part of hermeager resources into building up England's spy network--in fact, she made itthe most sophisticated intelligence agency in Europe. With agents throughoutSpain, she was kept informed of Philip's every move. She knew exactly howlarge the armada was to be and when it was to be launched. That allowed her topostpone calling up her army and reserves until the very last moment, saving thegovernment money.Finally, in the summer of 1588, the Spanish Armada was ready. It comprised128 ships, including twenty large galleons, and a vast number of sailors andsoldiers. Equal in size to England's entire navy, it had cost a fortune. The Armada set sail from Lisbon in the second week of July. But Elizabeth's spieshad fully informed her of Spain's plans, and she was able to send a fleet ofsmaller, more mobile English ships to harass the Armada on its way up theFrench coast, sinking its supply ships and generally creating chaos. As thecommander of the English fleet, Lord Howard of Effingham, reported, "Theirforce is wonderful great and strong; and yet we pluck their feathers little bylittle."Finally the Armada came to anchor in the port of Calais, where it was to linkup with the Spanish armies stationed in the Low Countries. Determined toprevent it from picking up these reinforcements, the English gathered eight largeships, loaded them with flammable substances, and set them on course for theSpanish fleet, which was anchored in tight formation. As the British shipsapproached the harbor under full sail, their crews set them on fire and evacuated.The result was havoc, with dozens of Spanish ships in flames. Others scrambledfor safe water, often colliding with one another. In their haste to put to sea, allorder broke down.The loss of ships and supplies at Calais devastated Spanish discipline andmorale, and the invasion was called off. To avoid further attacks on the return toSpain, the remaining ships headed not south but north, planning to sail homearound Scotland and Ireland. The English did not even bother with pursuit; theyknew that the rough weather in those waters would do the damage for them. Bythe