white headband that Genzaemon wore.Genzaemon shouted angrily at Musashi and charged forward, impatient tohave done with this irritating boor. But Musashi, looking almost bored, parriedone blow after another. Each man was able to slash at the other's forehead, butwhere Genzaemon's white headband turned red with blood, Musashi's stayed thesame color. Finally, frustrated and confused, Genzaemon charged forward yetagain--right into Mushashi's sword, which struck his head and knocked him tothe ground unconscious. Genzaemon would later recover, but he was sohumiliated by his defeat that he left the world of swordsmanship and entered thepriesthood, where he would spend his remaining years.[Christy] Mathewson in his later years recounted a knockdown incident fromthe first game of the 1911 World Series, which he won for the Giants,defeating the Philadelphia Athletics 2 to 1. Charles Albert "Chief" Benderstarted for the Athletics, and Bender was throwing harder that day thanMathewson had ever seen him throw. Twice Bender drilled Fred Snodgrass,the Giants' young center fielder. When Snodgrass came to bat for the thirdtime--in a "pinch"--Bender smiled at him. "Look out, Freddie," he said, "youdon't get hit this time." Then he threw a fast ball at Snodgrass' head.Snodgrass ducked. Ball one. "If you can't throw better than that," Snodgrassshouted, "I won't need to get a hit." Bender continued to smile. ("He hadperfect teeth," Mathewson remembered.) Then he threw a fast-ball strike thatoverpowered Snodgrass. "You missed that a mile," Bender said, grinningagain. Snodgrass set his jaw in anger and began overswinging. "Grinningchronically," in Mathewson's phrase, Bender struck out Snodgrass with acurve that broke down into the dirt. Snodgrass was not afraid of ChiefBender's pitches. He was a solid hitter who finished with a lifetime average of.275. What happened, Mathewson said, was that a combiination, theknockdown pitches, the sarcastic banter, the condescending grin, distractedSnodgrass. Then, having struck out his man, Bender pushed the needledeeper and twisted it. "You ain't a batter, Freddie. You're a backstop. You cannever get anywhere without being hit!" Although beaten that day, ChiefBender won two other games. The Athletics won the World Series, 4 games to 2. Across six games, the rattled Fred Snodgrass, a .294 hitter all season,batted .105. But as Mathewson interpreted the episode, he was a victim ofgamesmanship, obviously and distinctly quite different from being terrorized."Chief took Fred's mind right out of the game," Mathewson said.THE HEAD GAME, ROGER KAHN, 2001InterpretationFor a samurai, losing a duel could mean death or public humiliation. Swordsmensought out any advantage--physical dexterity, a superior sword, the perfecttechnique--to avoid that fate. But the greatest samurais, the Bokudens andMusashis, sought their advantage in being able to subtly push the opponent offhis game, messing with his mind. They might try to make him self-conscious, alittle too aware of his technique and style--a deadly trap for anyone who mustreact in the moment. They might trick him into focusing on the wrong thing--theleft hand, the scarlet headband. Particularly with conventional-mindedopponents, they might show up late, sparking a frustration that would upset theirtiming and concentration. In all of these cases, a change in the enemy's