some 50,000 men withhim; he was outnumbered nearly two to one. How could he hope to face theallies? Even so, on November 27, Francis I offered him an armistice. Napoleonwas formidable, and even at those odds, fighting him was a risk. In truth, Franciswas also trying to buy enough time to envelop the French army completely, butnone of the alliance generals thought Napoleon would fall for that trick.To their surprise, however, Napoleon seemed eager to come to terms.Suddenly the czar and his generals had a new thought: he was panicking,grasping at straws. That suspicion seemed borne out almost immediately, when,on November 29, Napoleon abandoned the Pratzen Heights almost as soon as hehad taken them, assuming a position to their west and repeatedly repositioninghis cavalry. He appeared utterly confused. The next day he asked for a meetingwith the czar himself. Instead the czar sent an emissary, who reported back thatNapoleon had been unable to disguise his fear and doubt. He had seemed onedge, emotional, even distraught. The emissary's conditions for armistice hadbeen harsh, and although Napoleon had not agreed to them, he had listenedquietly, seeming chastened, even intimidated. This was music to the ears of theyoung czar, who was burning for his first engagement with Napoleon. He wastired of waiting.By abandoning the Pratzen Heights, Napoleon seemed to have put himself ina vulnerable position: his southern lines were weak, and his route of retreat, southwest toward Vienna, was exposed. An allied army could take the PratzenHeights, pivot south to break through that weak point in his lines and cut off hisretreat, then move back north to surround his army and destroy him. Why wait?A better chance would never come. Czar Alexander and his younger generalsprevailed over the hesitant Austrian emperor and launched the attack.A sudden inspiration then came to William [at the Battle of Hastings, A.D.1066] , suggested by the disaster which had befallen the English right in thefirst conflict. He determined to try the expedient of a feigned flight, astratagem not unknown to Bretons and Normans of earlier ages. By hisorders a considerable portion of the assailants suddenly wheeled about andretired in seeming disorder. The English thought, with more excuse on thisoccasion than on the last, that the enemy was indeed routed, and for thesecond time a great body of them broke the line and rushed after theretreating squadrons. When they were well on their way down the slope,William repeated his former procedure. The intact portion of his host fellupon the flanks of the pursuers, while those who had simulated flight facedabout and attacked them in front. The result was again a foregoneconclusion: the disordered men of the fyrd were hewn to pieces, and few ornone of them escaped back to their comrades on the height.HISTORY OF THE ART OF WAR IN THE MIDDLE AGES, SIR CHARLESOMAN, 1898It began early on the morning of December 2. While two smaller divisionsfaced off against the French from the north, pinning them down, a stream ofRussian and Austrian soldiers moved toward the Pratzen Heights,