thou keep'st, Hourly afflict: merely, thou art death'sfool; For him thou labour'st by thy flight to shun And yet runn'st toward himstill. Thou art not noble; For all the accommodations that thou bear'st Arenursed by baseness. Thou'rt by no means valiant; For thou dost fear the softand tender fork Of a poor worm. Thy best of rest is sleep, And that thou oftprovokest; yet grossly fear'st Thy death, which is no more.MEASURE FOR MEASURE, WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, 1564-1616The consequences for Crawford could have been terrible; to challenge thestudio system was considered highly unwise. Indeed, when she then signed upwith Warner Brothers, predictably enough she was offered the same mediocresorts of scripts. She turned them down. On the verge of being fired, she finallyfound the part she had been looking for: the title role in Mildred Pierce, which,however, she was not offered. Setting to work on the director, Michael Curtiz,she managed to change his mind and land the role. She gave the performance ofher life, won her only Best Actress Oscar, and resurrected her career.In leaving MGM, Crawford was taking a big chance. If she failed to succeed at Warner Brothers, and quickly, her career would be over. But Crawford thrivedon risk. When she was challenged, when she felt on edge, she burst with energyand was at her best. Like Crawford, you sometimes have to force yourself ontodeath ground--leaving stale relationships and comfortable situations behind,cutting your ties to the past. If you give yourself no way out, you will have tomake your new endeavor work. Leaving the past for unknown terrain is like adeath--and feeling this finality will snap you back to life. Make it "you against the world." Compared to sports like football, baseball isslow and has few outlets for aggression. This was a problem for the hitter TedWilliams, who played best when he was angry--when he felt that it was himagainst the world. Creating this mood on the field was difficult for Williams, butearly on, he discovered a secret weapon: the press. He got into the habit ofinsulting sportswriters, whether just by refusing to cooperate with them or byverbally abusing them. The reporters returned the favor, writing scathing articleson his character, questioning his talent, trumpeting the slightest drop in hisbatting average. It was when Williams was hammered by the press, though, thathe played best. He would go on a hitting tear, as if to prove them wrong. In1957, when he carried on a yearlong feud with the papers, he played perhaps hisgreatest season and won the batting title at what for a baseball player is theadvanced age of forty. As one journalist wrote, "Hate seems to activate hisreflexes like adrenaline stimulates the heart. Animosity is his fuel!"For Williams the animosity of the press and, with the press, of the public,was a kind of constant pressure that he could read, hear, and feel. They hatedhim, they doubted him, they wanted to see him fail; he would show them. Andhe did. A fighting spirit needs a little edge, some anger and hatred