design could often take ten years or more, from the initialsketch to the actual construction. In that time, all kinds of problems and conflictscould arise, which could end up spoiling the initial vision. With larger budgetswould come more constraints, and the need to please many different people. Ifhe were not careful, his desire to transgress the rules and to express a personalvision would get lost in the process. And so, as his career progressed, somethinginside him made him return to the method he had developed for the Ernstingwarehouse, and to elaborate it even further.He would always begin with the drawings. Drawing by hand had becomeincreasingly unusual in the era of computer graphics that had come to dominateso many aspects of architectural design in the 1980s. As a trained engineer,Calatrava knew the tremendous advantages the computer provided for runningmodels and testing the soundness of a structure. But working exclusively on acomputer, he could not create in the same way as he could with pencil or brushand paper. The intervention of the computer screen cut off the dreamlike processof sketching, the direct contact it gave him with his unconscious. His hand andhis mind seemed to work together in a way that was primal and real, and thatcould not be duplicated through a computer.Now his drawings for a single project would number in the hundreds. Hewould start out in the same loose manner, building up all kinds of associations. would start out in the same loose manner, building up all kinds of associations.He would begin with a feeling or an emotion that the idea of the design sparkedin him. This would lead to an image, however vague. For instance, when askedto design an elaborate addition to the Milwaukee Art Museum, what first cameto mind and then to paper was the image of a bird about to take flight. Thisimage would go through the mill of his sketching process, but in the end the roofof the building he designed featured two enormous, ribbed panels that wouldopen and close according to the sunlight, giving the impression of an enormousprehistoric bird about to fly over Lake Michigan.Most of these early, free associations would revolve around nature—plants,trees, human figures in various poses, skeletal ribbing—and would be intimatelytied to the landscape. Slowly, the shape of the overall structure would come intofocus through this process, as he would make the idea increasingly rational andarchitectural. As an adjunct to this process he would build models, sometimesbeginning with a completely abstract sculptural shape that in subsequentversions would become the design for the structure itself. All of these drawingsand sculptures were like exteriorizations of his unconscious and nonverbalthought processes.Inevitably, as he moved closer to the construction phase, he would come upagainst constraints, such as the materials to be used and budgetaryconsiderations. But working from this initial strategy, he experienced thesefactors merely as creative challenges: for instance, how could he incorporatecertain materials into the vision he had sketched out and make it all work? If itwere a train or subway station, how could