a child Leonardo was left mostly tohimself. He liked most of all to wander through the olive groves around Vinci orto follow a particular path that led to a much different part of the landscape—dense forests full of wild boar, waterfalls cascading over fast-moving streams,swans gliding through pools, strange wildflowers growing out of the sides ofcliffs. The intense variety of life in these forests enthralled him. One day, sneaking into his father’s office, he grabbed some sheets of paper—a rather rare commodity in those days, but as a notary his father had a largesupply. He took the sheets on his walk into the forest, and sitting upon a rock hebegan to sketch the various sights around him. He kept returning day after day todo more of the same; even when the weather was bad, he would sit under somekind of shelter and sketch. He had no teachers, no paintings to look at; he dideverything by eye, with nature as the model. He noticed that in drawing thingshe had to observe them much more closely and catch the details that made themcome to life.Once he sketched a white iris, and in observing it so closely he was struck byits peculiar shape. The iris begins as a seed, and then it proceeds through variousstages, all of which he had drawn over the past few years. What makes this plantdevelop through its stages and culminate in this magnificent flower, so unlikeany other? Perhaps it possesses a force that pushes it through these varioustransformations. He would wonder about the metamorphosis of flowers for yearsto come.Alone on his deathbed, Leonardo would have thought back to his earliestyears as an apprentice in the studio of the Florentine artist Andrea delVerrocchio. He had been admitted there at the age of fourteen because of theremarkable quality of his drawings. Verrocchio instructed his apprentices in allof the sciences that were necessary to produce the work of his studio—engineering, mechanics, chemistry, and metallurgy. Leonardo was eager to learnall of these skills, but soon he discovered in himself something else: he could notsimply do an assignment; he needed to make it something of his own, to inventrather than imitate the Master.One time, as part of his studio work, he was asked to paint an angel in alarger biblical scene designed by Verrocchio. He had decided that he wouldmake his portion of the scene come to life in his own way. In the foreground infront of the angel he painted a flowerbed, but instead of the usual generalizedrenderings of plants, Leonardo depicted the flower specimens that he had studiedin such detail as a child, with a kind of scientific rigor no one had seen before.For the angel’s face, he experimented with his paints and mixed a new blend thatgave it a kind of soft radiance that expressed the angel’s sublime mood. (To helpcapture this mood, Leonardo had spent time in the local church observing thosein fervent prayer, the expression of one young man serving as the model for theangel.) And finally, he