arepromoted in our culture. People are increasingly reluctant to tell each other thetruth about themselves—their weaknesses, their inadequacies, flaws in theirwork. Even the self-help books designed to set us straight tend to be soft andflattering, telling us what we want to hear—that we are basically good and canget what we want by following a few simple steps. It seems abusive or damagingto people’s self-esteem to offer them stern, realistic criticism, to set them tasksthat will make them aware of how far they have to go. In fact, this indulgenceand fear of hurting people’s feelings is far more abusive in the long run. It makesit hard for people to gauge where they are or to develop self-discipline. It makesthem unsuited for the rigors of the journey to mastery. It weakens people’s will.Masters are those who by nature have suffered to get to where they are. Theyhave experienced endless criticisms of their work, doubts about their progress,setbacks along the way. They know deep in their bones what is required to get tothe creative phase and beyond. As mentors, they alone can gauge the extent ofour progress, the weaknesses in our character, the ordeals we must go through toadvance. In this day and age, you must get the sharpest dose of reality that ispossible from your mentor. You must go in search of it and welcome it. Ifpossible, choose a mentor who is known for supplying this form of tough love. Ifthey shy away from giving it, force them to hold up the mirror that will reflectyou as you are. Get them to give you the proper challenges that will reveal yourstrengths and weaknesses and allow you to gain as much feedback as possible,no matter how hard it might be to take. Accustom yourself to criticism.Confidence is important, but if it is not based on a realistic appraisal of who youare, it is mere grandiosity and smugness. Through the realistic feedback of yourmentor you will eventually develop a confidence that is much more substantialand worth possessing. 3. Transfigure their ideasIn 1943 the eminent pianist and teacher Alberto Guerrero accepted a new pupil,a precocious eleven-year-old named Glenn Gould who was unlike any otherstudent he had ever encountered. Glenn had been playing since he was four yearsold, having been taught by his mother, who was an accomplished piano player inher own right. After a few years under her tutelage, Glenn had surpassed hismother in skill on many levels; he began to argue and correct her; he wantedmore challenging work. Guerrero was well known in Toronto, Canada, wherethe Goulds lived; he was reputed to be very patient, yet also demanding—traitsthat could serve him well as a teacher for the young Gould, which is why theparents chose him. From the very first session, Guerrero could sense an unusualseriousness and intensity in someone so young. Gould listened with completeattention and could absorb Guerrero’s style of playing in a way he had neverseen in a pupil. He was a consummate mimic.Soon, however, Guerrero began to notice some strange traits