him. But he must never forget that he is moving on devious paths where the god of war may catch him unawares. He must always keep an eye on his opponent so that he does not, if the latter has taken up a sharp sword, approach him armed only with an ornamental rapier. These conclusions concerning the nature of war and the function of its purposes and means; the manner in which war in practice deviates in vary- ing degrees from its basic, rigorous concept, taking this form or that, but always remaining subject to that basic concept, as to a supreme law; all these points must be kept in mind in our subsequent analyses if we are to perceive the real connections between all aspects of war, and the true sig- nificance of each; and if we wish to avoid constantly falling into the wildest inconsistencies with reality and even with our own arguments. Copyright © ${Date}. ${Publisher}. All rights reserved. MASTERYRobert Greene has a degree in classicalstudies and is the author of four bestsellingbooks, including The 48 Laws of Power andThe 50th Law. He lives in Los Angeles. ALSO BY ROBERT GREENEThe 50th Law (with 50 Cent)The 33 Strategies of War(A Joost Elfers Production)The Art of Seduction(A Joost Elfers Production)The 48 Laws of Power(A Joost Elfers Production) MASTERYROBERT GREENE First published in Great Britain in 2012 byPROFILE BOOKS LTD3A Exmouth HousePine StreetLondon EC1R 0JHwww.profilebooks.comCopyright © Robert Greene, 2012Published with arrangement of Viking,a member of Penguin Group (USA) Inc.1 3 5 7 9 10 8 6 4 2Printed and bound in China byAsia Pacific OffsetThe moral right of the author has been asserted.All rights reserved. Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above,no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored or introduced into aretrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means (electronic,mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise), without the prior writtenpermission of both the copyright owner and the publisher of this book.A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.ISBN 978 1781250914eISBN 978 184765 3314 To Anna CONTENTSINTRODUCTIONTHE ULTIMATE POWERHigher intelligence—definition of mastery—the three phases of mastery—intuitive intelligence—connecting to reality—the latent power within usallTHE EVOLUTION OF MASTERYOur primitive ancestors—evolution of the human brain—the ability todetach and focus—social intelligence of early hominids—mirror neurons—thinking inside—mastery of time—working with the grain of the humanbrain—connecting to our early rootsKEYS TO MASTERYCharles Darwin following his inclination—traits of all great Masters—our uniqueness and primal inclinations—political barriers to masterycrumbling—definition of genius—the concept of mastery denigrated—role of desire in mastery—the danger of passivity—the plasticity of thebrain—overview of strategies and biographical figures in the bookI.DISCOVER YOUR CALLING: THE LIFE’S TASKYou possess an inner force that seeks to guide you toward your Life’sTask—what you are meant to accomplish in the time that you have to live.The first move toward mastery is always inward—learning who youreally are and reconnecting with that innate force. Knowing it withclarity, you will find your way to the proper career path and everythingelse will fall into place. It