locked ina series of wars with neighboring cities.In the utilization of a theater of war, as in everything else, strategy calls foreconomy of strength. The less one can manage with, the better; but manageone must, and here, as in commerce, there is more to it than mere stinginess.CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ, 1780-1831The prudent Romans were reluctant to take on Tarentum. It was Italy'swealthiest city at the time, rich enough to finance its allies in a war againstRome; it was also too far away, off in the southeast, to pose an immediate threat.But the Tarentines had sunk some Roman ships that had wandered into theirharbor, killing the fleet's admiral, and when Rome had tried to negotiate asettlement, its ambassadors had been insulted. Roman honor was at stake, and itreadied itself for war.Tarentum had a problem: it was wealthy but had no real army. Its citizenshad gotten used to easy living. The solution was to call in a Greek army to fighton its behalf. The Spartans were otherwise occupied, so the Tarentines called on King Pyrrhus of Epirus (319-272 B.C.), the greatest Greek warrior king sinceAlexander the Great.Epirus was a small kingdom in west-central Greece. It was a poor land,sparsely populated, with meager resources, but Pyrrhus--raised on stories ofAchilles, from whom his family claimed to be descended, and of Alexander theGreat, a distant cousin--was determined to follow in the footsteps of hisillustrious ancestors and relatives, expanding Epirus and carving out his ownempire. As a young man, he had served in the armies of other great military men,including Ptolemy, a general of Alexander's who now ruled Egypt. Pyrrhus hadquickly proved his value as a warrior and leader. In battle he had become knownfor leading dangerous charges, earning himself the nickname "The Eagle." Backin Epirus he had built up his small army and trained it well, even managing todefeat the much larger Macedonian army in several battles.Pyrrhus's reputation was on the rise, but it was hard for a small country likehis to gain ascendancy over more powerful Greek neighbors like theMacedonians, the Spartans, and the Athenians. And the Tarentines' offer wastempting: First, they promised him money and a large army raised from alliedstates. Second, by defeating the Romans, he could make himself master of Italy,and from Italy he could take first Sicily, then Carthage in North Africa.Alexander had moved east to create his empire; Pyrrhus could move west anddominate the Mediterranean. He accepted the offer.In the spring of 280 B.C., Pyrrhus set sail with the largest Greek army everto cross into Italy: 20,000 foot soldiers, 3,000 horsemen, 2,000 bowmen, andtwenty elephants. Once in Tarentum, though, he realized he had been tricked: notonly did the Tarentines have no army, they had made no effort to assemble one,leaving Pyrrhus to do it himself. Pyrrhus wasted no time: he declared a militarydictatorship in the city and began to build and train an army from among theTarentines as fast as possible.Pyrrhus's arrival in Tarentum worried the Romans, who knew his reputationas a strategist and fighter. Deciding to give him