a gallant bearing is the thing. One cannot praise a man too much who speaks well of them who speak ill of him. There is no more heroic vengeance than that of talents and services which at once conquer and torment the envious. Every success is a further twist of the cord round the neck of the ill-aﬀected, and an enemy's glory is the rival's hell. The envious die not once, but as oft as the envied wins applause. The immortality of his fame is the measure of the other's torture: the one lives in endless honour, the other in endless pain. The clarion of Fame announces immortality to the one and death to the other, the slow death of envy long drawn out. clxiii Never , from Sympathy with the Unfortunate, involve Y ourself in his Fate. One man's misfortune is another man's luck, for one cannot be lucky without many being unlucky . It is a peculiarity of the unfortunate to arouse people's goodwill who desire to compensate them for the blows of fortune with their useless favour, and it happens that one who was abhorred by all in prosperity is adored by all in adversity . V engeance on the wing is exchanged for compassion afoot. Y et 'tis to be noticed how fate shuﬄes the cards. There are men who always consort with the unlucky , and he that yesterday ﬂew high and happy stands to-day miserable at their side. That argues nobility of soul, but not worldly wisdom. clxiv Throw Straws in the Air , to ﬁnd how things will be received, especially those whose reception or success is doubtful. One can thus be assured of its turning out well, and an opportunity is aﬀorded for going on in earnest or withdrawing entirely . By trying men's intentions in this way , the wise man knows on what ground he stands. This is the great rule of foresight in asking, in desiring, and in ruling. clxv W age W ar Honourably . Y ou may be obliged to wage war, but not to use poisoned arrows. Every one must needs act as he is, not as others would make him to be. Gallantry in the battle of life wins all men's praise: one should ﬁght so as to conquer, not alone by force but by the way it is used. A mean victory brings no glory , but rather disgrace. Honour always has the upper hand. An honourable man never uses forbidden weapons, such as using a friendship that's ended for the purposes of a hatred just begun: a conﬁdence must never be used for a vengeance. The slightest taint of treason tarnishes the good name. In men of honour the smallest trace of meanness repels: the noble and the ignoble should be miles apart. Be able to boast that if gallantry , generosity , and ﬁdelity were lost in the world men would be able to ﬁnd them again in your own breast. clxvi