vehicle. He convinced Murphyto give him another chance, something rare in the fledgling automobile business.Still believing in Ford’s genius, he agreed, and together they formed the HenryFord Company. Right from the start, however, Ford felt the pressure fromMurphy to get the automobile ready for production so as to avoid the problemshe’d had with the first company. Ford resented the interference from people whoknew nothing about design or the high standards he was trying to establish forthe industry.Murphy and his men brought in an outsider to supervise the process. Thiswas the breaking point—less than a year after its establishment, Ford left thecompany. The break with Murphy this time was final. In the car business,everyone wrote Henry Ford off. He had blown his two chances and nobody wasever given a third, not with the amount of money at stake. But to friends andfamily, Ford himself seemed blithely unconcerned. He told everyone that thesewere all invaluable lessons to him—he had paid attention to every glitch alongthe way, and like a watch or an engine, he had taken apart these failures in hismind and had identified the root cause: no one was giving him enough time towork out the bugs. The people with money were meddling in mechanical anddesign affairs. They were injecting their mediocre ideas into the process andpolluting it. He resented the idea that having money gave them certain rights,when all that mattered was a perfect design.The answer was to find a way to maintain complete independence from thefinanciers. This was not the usual way of doing business in America, which wasbecoming increasingly bureaucratic. He would have to invent his own form oforganization, his own business model, one that suited his temperament and needs—including an efficient team he could trust, and the right to the final word on every decision.Considering his reputation, it would be almost impossible to find backing,but several months into the search he found an ideal partner—AlexanderMalcomson, an émigré from Scotland who had made his fortune in the coalbusiness. Like Ford, he had an unconventional streak and was a risk taker. Heagreed to finance this latest venture and to not meddle in the manufacturingprocess. Ford worked at creating a new kind of assembly plant that would givehim more control over the car he wanted to design, now known as the Model A.The Model A would be the lightest car ever made, simple and durable. It was theculmination of all of his tinkering and designing. It would be assembled along aline that would ensure speed of production.With the assembly plant ready, Ford worked hard at getting the team ofworkers to churn out fifteen cars a day—a rather high number back then. Heoversaw every aspect of the production—it was his car from the inside out. Heeven worked on the assembly line, endearing himself to the workers. Ordersstarted pouring in for the well made yet inexpensive Model A, and by 1904 theFord Motor Company had to expand its operations. Soon it would be one of thefew survivors from the early era of