graduate school in computer science at Harvard University.At Harvard Graham finally had to confront something about himself—hewas not cut out for academia. He hated writing research papers. The universityway of programming took all the fun and excitement out of it—the process ofdiscovering through trial and error. He was a hacker at heart, one who liked tofigure things out for himself. He found a fellow hacker at Harvard, RobertMorris, and together they began to explore the intricacies of the programminglanguage Lisp. It seemed like the most potentially powerful and fluid languageof them all. Understanding Lisp made you understand something essential aboutprogramming itself. It was a language suited for high-level hackers, a languagespecifically made for investigation and discovery.Disillusioned with the computer science department at Harvard, Grahamdecided to design his own graduate school program: he would take a wide rangeof classes and discover what interested him the most. To his surprise, he foundhimself attracted to art—to painting, and to the subject of art history itself. Whatthis meant to him was that he should follow this interest and see where it wouldlead. After completing his PhD at Harvard in computer science, he enrolled inthe Rhode Island School of Design, then attended a painting program at theAccademia in Florence, Italy. He returned to the States broke but determined totry his hand at painting. He would pay for his lifestyle with intermittentconsulting work in programming.As the years went by, he would occasionally reflect on the course of his life.Artists in the Renaissance would go through clear-cut apprenticeships, but whatcould he say about his own apprenticeship? There seemed to be no real design ordirection to his life. It was like the “cheesy hacks” he did in high school,patching things together, figuring things out through constant trial and error,finding out what worked by doing it. Shaping his life in this haphazard way, helearned what to avoid—academia; working for large companies; any politicalenvironment. He liked the process of making things. What really mattered to himin the end was having possibilities—being able to go in this or that direction,depending on what life presented to him. If over the years he had undergone anapprenticeship, it was almost by default.One afternoon in 1995, he heard on the radio a story about Netscape—thecompany itself was touting its future and discussing how someday mostbusinesses would be selling their products on the Internet itself, with Netscapeleading the way. With his bank account getting desperately low again, yet leading the way. With his bank account getting desperately low again, yetdreading the idea of returning to another consulting job, he recruited his oldhacker friend Robert Morris to help him create software for running an onlinebusiness. Graham’s idea was to design a program that would run directly on theweb server instead of having to be downloaded. No one had thought of thisbefore. They would write the program in Lisp, taking advantage of the speedwith which they could make changes to it. They called their business Viaweb,and it would be the first of its kind, the pioneer of online