some russet, and others white or ash-grey. How can I lead into battlethose who are not in harmony and who are all dissimilar?' In all armies it isunity of will and purpose which assures victory over the enemy. FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C.Not only was Johnson relentlessly demanding, but his criticisms were oftencruel. Occasionally, though, he would do Jones and Latimer some unexpected favor or praise them for something they hadn't realized he had noticed. Atmoments like this, the two young men quickly forgot the many bitter moments intheir work. For Johnson, they felt, they would go to the ends of the earth.And indeed Johnson rose through the ranks, first winning influence withinKleberg's office, then gaining the attention of President Franklin D. Roosevelthimself. In 1935, Roosevelt named Johnson Texas state director for the recentlybuilt National Youth Administration. Now Johnson began to build a larger teamaround the core of his two devoted assistants; he also built loyalties in ascattering of others for whom he found jobs in Washington. The dynamic he hadcreated with Jones and Latimer now repeated itself on a larger scale: assistantscompeted for his attention, tried to please him, to meet his standards, to beworthy of him and of his causes.In 1937, when Congressman James Buchanan suddenly died, the seat forTexas's Tenth District unexpectedly fell empty. Despite the incredible oddsagainst him--he was still relatively unknown and way too young--Johnsondecided to run and called in his chips: his carefully cultivated acolytes pouredinto Texas, becoming chauffeurs, canvassers, speechwriters, barbecue cooks,crowd entertainers, nurses--whatever the campaign needed. In the six shortweeks of the race, Johnson's foot soldiers covered the length and breadth of theTenth District. And in front of them at every step was Johnson himself,campaigning as if his life depended on it. One by one, he and his team won overvoters in every corner of the district, and finally, in one of the greatest upsets inany American political race, Johnson won the election. His later career, first as asenator, then as U.S. president, obscured the foundation of his first great success:the army of devoted and tireless followers that he had carefully built up over theprevious five years.InterpretationLyndon Johnson was an intensely ambitious young man. He had neither moneynor connections but had something more valuable: an understanding of humanpsychology. To command influence in the world, you need a power base, andhere human beings--a devoted army of followers--are more valuable than money.They will do things for you that money cannot buy.That army is tricky to build. People are contradictory and defensive: pushthem too hard and they resent you; treat them well and they take you for granted.Johnson avoided those traps by making his staff want his approval. To do that heled from the front. He worked harder than any of his staff, and his men saw himdo it; failing to match him would have made them feel guilty and selfish. Aleader who works that hard stirs competitive instincts in his men, who do all they can to prove themselves worthier than their teammates. By