inpeople’s behavior and deducing their motivations. Over the years, thesereasoning skills have become infinitely more powerful and refined. In theory, allof us today possess the natural tools—empathy, rational thinking—to have asupreme understanding of our fellow humans. In practice, however, these toolsremain mostly undeveloped, and the explanation for this can be found in thepeculiar nature of our childhood, and our extended period of dependency.Compared to other animals, we humans enter the world remarkably weakand helpless. We remain relatively weak for many years before we can trulyoperate on our own. This extended period of immaturity, lasting some twelve toeighteen years, serves a valuable function: it gives us a chance to focus ondeveloping our brain—by far the most important weapon in the human arsenal.But this prolonged childhood comes with a price. During this time of weaknessand dependency, we experience the need to idealize our parents. Our survivaldepends on their strength and reliability. To think of them as having their ownfrailties would fill us with unbearable anxiety. And so we inevitably see them asstronger, more capable, and more selfless than they are in reality. We come toview their actions through the lens of our needs, and so they become extensionsof ourselves.During this long period of immaturity, we often transfer these idealizationsand distortions to teachers and friends, projecting onto them what we want andneed to see. Our view of people becomes saturated with various emotions—worship, admiration, love, need, anger. Then inevitably, often in adolescence,we start to glimpse a less-than-noble side to many people, including our parents,and we cannot help but feel upset at the disparity between what we had imaginedand the reality. In our disappointment, we tend to exaggerate their negativequalities, much as we once had exaggerated the positive ones. If we had beenforced earlier on in life to make it on our own, practical needs would have come to dominate our thinking, and we would have become more detached andrealistic. But as it is, the many years of viewing people through the lens of ouremotional needs turns into a habit that we can hardly control.Let us call this the Naïve Perspective. Although it is natural to have such aperspective because of the unique character of our childhood, it is alsodangerous because it envelops us in childish illusions about people, distortingour view of them. We carry this perspective with us into the adult world, into theApprenticeship Phase. In the work environment the stakes are suddenly raised.People are no longer struggling for good grades or social approval, but forsurvival. Under such pressure, they reveal qualities of their characters that theynormally try to conceal. They manipulate, compete, and think of themselvesfirst. We are blindsided by this behavior and our emotions are churned up evenmore than before, locking us into the Naïve Perspective.The Naïve Perspective makes us feel sensitive and vulnerable. Lookinginward as to how the words and actions of others implicate us in some way, wecontinually misread their intentions. We project our own feelings onto them. Wehave no real sense of what they are thinking or what