it into a "devil's garden" of minefields and fire zones.Rommel and Runstedt also asked for more troops to ensure that the Germanscould repel the Allies at the water's edge. But the Fuhrer denied their request.Hitler had lately come to mistrust his top staff. In the past few years, he hadsurvived several assassination attempts that had clearly originated among hisofficers. His generals were increasingly arguing with his strategies, and in hismind they had botched several battles in the Russian campaign; he saw many ofthem as incompetents or traitors. He began to spend less time with his officersand more time holed up in his Bavarian mountain retreat at Berchtesgaden, withhis mistress, Eva Braun, and his beloved dog, Biondi. There he pored over mapsand intelligence reports, determined to make the important decisions himself andto manage the entire war effort more directly.This caused a change in his way of thinking: instead of making quick,intuitive choices, he was trying to foresee every possibility and was takinglonger to make up his mind. Now he thought Rommel and Runstedt--in theirrequest for more troops to be transferred to France--were being overly cautiousand even panicky. He alone would have to foil the Allied invasion; it was up tohim to see through his generals' weaknesses and the enemy's deceptions. Theonly downside to this was that his workload had increased tenfold, and he wasmore tired than ever. At night he took sleeping pills, by day whatever he couldget his hands on to keep him alert.Early in 1944 key information arrived in Hitler's hands: a German agent inTurkey stole classified documents confirming that the Allies would invadeFrance that year. The documents also indicated plans for an imminent invasionof the Balkans. Hitler was particularly sensitive to any threats to the Balkans, avaluable source of resources for Germany; a loss there would be devastating.The threat of such an attack made it impossible to transfer troops from there toFrance. Hitler's agents in England also discovered plans to invade Norway, andhere Hitler actually reinforced his troops to ward off the threat.By April, as Hitler pored over intelligence reports, he began to feelincreasingly excited: he discerned a pattern in the enemy activity. As he hadthought, everything pointed toward an invasion of the Pas de Calais. One signparticularly stood out: indications of an enormous army forming in southeasternEngland under the command of General George Patton. This army, calledFUSAG (First United States Army Group), was clearly positioned for a crossingto the Pas de Calais. Of all the Allies' generals, Hitler feared Patton the most. Hehad proven his military skill in North Africa and Sicily. He would be the perfectcommander for the invasion. Hitler demanded more information on Patton's army. High-flyingreconnaissance planes photographed enormous military camps, dockingequipment, thousands of tanks moving through the countryside, a pipeline beingbuilt to the coast. When a captured German general who had been imprisoned inEngland was finally repatriated, he caught glimpses of massive activity in theFUSAG area on his trip from his internment camp to London. Agents inSwitzerland reported that every map of the Pas