ofcourse would infuriate the emperor, and now the tribe would be isolated and indanger--and would appeal to Cortes for protection. On and on Cortes went withthis negative version of the Alliance Game, until the Aztecs' allies had becomehis.Your focus here is on stirring up mistrust. Make one partner suspicious ofthe other, spread rumors, cast doubts on people's motives, be friendly to one allyto make the other jealous. Divide and conquer. In this way you will create a tideof emotions, hitting first this side, then that, until the alliance totters. Nowformer members of the alliance will feel vulnerable. Through manipulation oroutright invitation, make them turn to you for protection.In facing an enemy that is composed of allies, no matter how large orformidable, do not be afraid. As Napoleon said, "Give me allies to fight." In war,allies generally have problems of command and control. The worst kind ofleadership is divided leadership; compelled to debate and agree before they act,allied generals usually move like snails. When fighting large groups of allies, ashe often did, Napoleon always attacked first the weak link, the junior partner. Collapse here could make the whole fabric of the alliance fall apart. He wouldalso seek quick victory in battle, even a small one, for no force is more easilydiscouraged by a defeat than an allied one.Finally, you will of course be attacked for playing the Alliance Game.People will accuse you of being feckless, amoral, treacherous. Remember: thesecharges are strategic themselves. They are part of a moral offensive (see chapter25). To advance their own interests, your accusers are trying to make you feelguilty or look bad. Do not let them get to you. The only real danger is that yourreputation will eventually keep people from making alliances with you--but self-interest rules the world. If you are seen to have benefited others in the past andas capable of doing the same in the present, you will have suitors and playingpartners. Besides, you are loyal and generous, as long as there is mutual need.And when you show that you cannot be had by the false lure of permanentloyalty and friendship, you will actually find yourself treated with greaterrespect. Many will be drawn to your realistic and spirited way of playing thegame. Authority: Beware of sentimental alliances where the consciousness ofgood deeds is the only compensation for noble sacrifices.--Otto von Bismarck (1815-1898)REVERSALIf you play the Alliance Game, so will those around you, and you cannot taketheir behavior personally--you must keep dealing with them. But there are sometypes with whom any kind of alliance will harm you. You can often recognizethem by their overeagerness to pursue you: they will make the first move, tryingto blind you with alluring offers and glittering promises. To protect yourselffrom being used in a negative way, always look at the tangible benefits you willgain from this alliance. If the benefits seem vague or hard to realize, think twiceabout joining forces. Look at your prospective allies' past for signs of greed or of using people without giving in return. Be