wets, the Argentineans. Theseenemies helped to define her image as determined, powerful, self-sacrificing.Thatcher was not seduced by popularity, which is ephemeral and superficial.Pundits might obsess over popularity numbers, but in the mind of the voter--which, for a politician, is the field of battle--a dominating presence has more pullthan does likability. Let some of the public hate you; you cannot pleaseeveryone. Your enemies, those you stand sharply against, will help you to forge asupport base that will not desert you. Do not crowd into the center, whereeveryone else is; there is no room to fight in a crowd. Polarize people, drivesome of them away, and create a space for battle.Everything in life conspires to push you into the center, and not justpolitically. The center is the realm of compromise. Getting along with otherpeople is an important skill to have, but it comes with a danger: by alwaysseeking the path of least resistance, the path of conciliation, you forget who youare, and you sink into the center with everyone else. Instead see yourself as afighter, an outsider surrounded by enemies. Constant battle will keep you strongand alert. It will help to define what you believe in, both for yourself and forothers. Do not worry about antagonizing people; without antagonism there is nobattle, and without battle, there is no chance of victory. Do not be lured by the need to be liked: better to be respected, even feared. Victory over your enemieswill bring you a more lasting popularity.The opposition of a member to an associate is no purely negative socialfactor, if only because such opposition is often the only means for making lifewith actually unbearable people at least possible. If we did not even have thepower and the right to rebel against tyranny, arbitrariness, moodiness,tactlessness, we could not bear to have any relation to people from whosecharacters we thus suffer. We would feel pushed to take desperate steps--andthese, indeed, would end the relation but do not, perhaps, constitute"conflict." Not only because of the fact that...oppression usually increases if itis suffered calmly and without protest, but also because opposition gives usinner satisfaction, distraction, relief...Our opposition makes us feel that weare not completely victims of the circumstances.GEORG SIMMEL, 1858-1918Don't depend on the enemy not coming; depend rather on being ready forhim.--Sun-tzu, The Art of War (fourth century B.C.)KEYS TO WARFAREWe live in an era in which people are seldom directly hostile. The rules ofengagement--social, political, military--have changed, and so must your notionof the enemy. An up-front enemy is rare now and is actually a blessing. Peoplehardly ever attack you openly anymore, showing their intentions, their desire todestroy you; instead they are political and indirect. Although the world is morecompetitive than ever, outward aggression is discouraged, so people havelearned to go underground, to attack unpredictably and craftily. Many usefriendship as a way to mask aggressive desires: they come close to you to domore harm. (A friend knows best how to hurt you.) Or, without actually beingfriends, they offer assistance and alliance: they may seem supportive, but