becomes old. However, know that the glory of novelty is short-lived: after four days respect is gone. Accordingly , learn to utilise the ﬁrst fruits of appreciation, and seize during the rapid passage of applause all that can be put to use. For once the heat of novelty over, the passion cools and the appreciation of novelty is exchanged for satiety at the customary: believe that all has its season, which soon passes. cclxx Do not condemn alone that which pleases all. There must be something good in a thing that pleases so many; even if it cannot be explained it is certainly enjoyed. Singularity is always hated, and, when in the wrong, laughed at. Y ou simply destroy respect for your taste rather than do harm to the object of your blame, and are left alone, you and your bad taste. If you cannot ﬁnd the good in a thing, hide your incapacity and do not damn it straightway . As a general rule bad taste springs from want of knowledge. What all say , is so, or will be so. cclxxi In every Occupation if you know little stick to the safest. If you are not respected as subtle, you will be regarded as sure. On the other hand, a man well trained can plunge in and act as he pleases. To know little and yet seek danger is nothing else than to seek ruin. In such a case take stand on the right hand, for what is done cannot be undone. Let little knowledge keep to the king's highway , and in every case, knowing or unknowing, security is shrewder than singularity . cclxxii Sell Things by the T ariff of Courtesy . Y ou oblige people most that way . The bid of an interested buyer will never equal the return gift of an honourable recipient of a favour. Courtesy does not really make presents, but really lays men under obligation, and generosity is the great obligation. To a right-minded man nothing costs more dear that what is given him: you sell it him twice and for two prices: one for the value, one for the politeness. At the same time it is true that with vulgar souls generosity is gibberish, for they do not understand the language of good breeding. cclxxiii Comprehend their Dispositions with whom you deal, so as to know their intentions. Cause known, eﬀect known, beforehand in the disposition and after in the motive. The melancholy man always foresees misfortunes, the backbiter scandals; having no conception of the good, evil oﬀers itself to them. A man moved by passion always speaks of things diﬀerently from what they are; it is his passion speaks, not his reason. Thus each speaks as his feeling or his humour prompts him, and all far from the truth. Learn how to decipher faces and spell out the soul in the features. If a man laughs always, set him down as foolish; if never, as false. Beware of