study his men, his tanks, the terrain, and the enemy--hegot inside their skin, understood the spirit that animated them, what made themtick. Having felt his way into these things, in battle he entered a state of mind inwhich he did not have to think consciously of the situation. The totality of whatwas going on was in his blood, at his fingertips. He had Fingerspitzengefuhl.Whether or not you have the mind of a Rommel, there are things you can doto help you respond faster and bring out that intuitive feel that all animalspossess. Deep knowledge of the terrain will let you process information fasterthan your enemy, a tremendous advantage. Getting a feel for the spirit of menand material, thinking your way into them instead of looking at them fromoutside, will help to put you in a different frame of mind, less conscious andforced, more unconscious and intuitive. Get your mind into the habit of makinglightning-quick decisions, trusting your fingertip feel. Your mind will advance ina kind of mental blitzkrieg, moving past your opponents before they realize whathas hit them. Finally, do not think of presence of mind as a quality useful only in periods ofadversity, something to switch on and off as you need it. Cultivate it as aneveryday condition. Confidence, fearlessness, and self-reliance are as crucial intimes of peace as in times of war. Franklin Delano Roosevelt showed histremendous mental toughness and grace under pressure not only during thecrises of the Depression and World War II but in everyday situations--in hisdealings with his family, his cabinet, his own polio-racked body. The better youget at the game of war, the more your warrior frame of mind will do for you indaily life. When a crisis does come, your mind will already be calm andprepared. Once presence of mind becomes a habit, it will never abandon you.The man with centre has calm, unprejudiced judgment. He knows what is important, what unimportant. He meets realilty serenely and with detachmentkeeping his sense of proportion. The Hara no aru hito [man with centre] faceslife calmly, is tranquil, ready for anything.... Nothing upsets him. If suddenlyfire breaks out and people begin to shout in wild confusion [he] does the rightthing immediately and quietly, he ascertains the direction of the wind, rescueswhat is most important, fetches water, and behaves unhesitatingly in the waythe emergency demands. The Hara no nai hito is the opposite of all this. TheHara no nai hito applies to the man without calm judgment. He lacks themeasure which should be second nature. Therefore he reacts haphazardly andsubectively, arbitrarily and capriciously. He cannot distinguish betweenimportant and unimportant, essential and unessential. His judgment is notbased upon facts but on temporary conditions and rests on subjectivefoundations, such as moods, whims, "nerves." The Hara no nai hito is easilystartled, is nervous, not because he is particularly sensitive but because helacks that inner axis which would prevent his being thrown off centre andwhich would enable him to deal with situations realistically.... Hara [centre,belly] is only in slight measure innate.