looking.About midnight when people had gone to sleep and were quiet, under asomewhat blurry moon he saw a man dressed in abundant clothes saunteringabout on a boulevard. The man, with his trouser-skirt tucked up with stringsperhaps and in a formal hunting robe which gently covered his body, wasplaying the flute, alone, apparently in no hurry to go to any particular place.Wow, here's a fellow who's shown up just to give me his clothes, Hakamadarethought. Normally he would have gleefully run up and beaten his quarry down and robbed him of his clothes. But this time, unaccountably, he feltsomething fearsome about the man, so he followed him for a couple ofhundred yards. The man himself didn't seem to think, Somebody's followingme. On the contrary, he continued to play the flute with what appeared to begreater calm. Give him a try, Hakamadare said to himself, and ran up closeto the man, making as much clatter as he could with his feet. The man,however, looked not the least disturbed. He simply turned to look, still playingthe flute. It wasn't possible to jump on him. Hakamadare ran off.Hakamadare tried similar approaches a number of times, but the manremained utterly unperturbed. Hakamadare realized he was dealing with anunusual fellow. When they had covered about a thousand yards, though,Hakamadare decided he couldn't continue like this, drew his sword, and ranup to him. This time the man stopped playing the flute and, turning, said,"What in the world are you doing?" Hakamadare couldn't have been struckwith greater fear even if a demon or a god had run up to attack him when hewas walking alone. For some unaccountable reason he lost both heart andcourage. Overcome with deathly fear and despite himself, he fell on his kneesand hands. "What are you doing?" the man repeated. Hakamadare felt hecouldn't escape even if he tried. "I'm trying to rob you," he blurted out. "Myname is Hakamadare." "I've heard there's a man about with that name, yes. Adangerous, unusual fellow, I'm told," the man said. Then he simply said toHakamadare, "Come with me," and continued on his way, playing the fluteagain. Terrified that he was dealing with no ordinary human being, and as ifpossessed by a demon or a god, Hakamadare followed the man, completelymystified. Eventually the man walked into a gate behind which was a largehouse. He stepped inside from the verandah after removing his shoes. WhileHakamadare was thinking, He must be the master of the house, the man cameback and summoned him. As he gave him a robe made of thick cotton cloth,he said, "If you need something like this in the future, just come and tell me. Ifyou jump on somebody who doesn't know your intentions, you may get hurt."Afterward it occurred to Hakamadare that the house belonged to Governor ofSettsu Fujiwara no Yasumasa. Later, when he was arrested, he is known tohave observed, "He was such an unusually weird, terrifying man!" Yasumasawas not a warrior by family tradition because he was a son of Munetada. Yethe was not