and insidious fashion. Authority: To conquer is nothing. One must profit from one's success.--Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821)REVERSALThere can be no value in ending anything badly. There is no reversal. PART V UNCONVENTIONAL (DIRTY) WARFAREA general fighting a war must constantly search for an advantage over theopponent. The greatest advantage comes from the element of surprise, fromhitting enemies with strategies that are novel, outside their experience,completely unconventional. It is in the nature of war, however, that over timeany strategy with any possible application will be tried and tested, so that thesearch for the new and unconventional has an innate tendency to become moreand more extreme. At the same time, moral and ethical codes that governedwarfare for centuries have gradually loosened. These two effects dovetail intowhat we today call "dirty war," where anything goes, down to the killing ofthousands of unwarned civilians. Dirty war is political, deceptive, and supremelymanipulative. Often the last recourse of the weak and desperate, it uses anymeans available to level the playing field.The dynamic of the dirty has filtered into society and the culture at large.Whether in politics, business, or society, the way to defeat your opponents is tosurprise them, to come at them from an unexpected angle. And the increasingpressures of these daily wars make dirty strategies inevitable. People gounderground: they seem nice and decent but use slippery, devious methodsbehind the scenes.The unconventional has its own logic that you must understand. First,nothing stays new for long. Those who depend on novelty must constantly comeup with some fresh idea that goes against the orthodoxies of the time. Second,people who use unconventional methods are very hard to fight. The classic,direct route--the use of force and strength--does not work. You must use indirectmethods to combat indirection, fight fire with fire, even at the cost of going dirtyyourself. To try to stay clean out of a sense of morality is to risk defeat.The chapters in this section will initiate you into the various forms of theunorthodox. Some of these are strictly unconventional: deceiving youropponents and working against their expectations. Others are more political andslippery: making morality a strategic weapon, applying the arts of guerrillawarfare to daily life, mastering the insidious forms of passive aggression. Andsome are unapologetically dirty: destroying the enemy from within, inflictingterror and panic. These chapters are designed to give you a greater understandingof the diabolical psychology involved in each strategy, helping to arm you withthe proper defense. WEAVE A SEAMLESS BLEND OF FACT ANDFICTIONMISPERCEPTION STRATEGIESSince no creature can survive without the ability to see or sense what is going onaround it, you must make it hard for your enemies to know what is going onaround them, including what you are doing. Disturb their focus and you weakentheir strategic powers. People's perceptions are filtered through their emotions;they tend to interpret the world according to what they want to see. Feed theirexpectations, manufacture a reality to match their desires, and they will foolthemselves. The best deceptions are based on ambiguity, mixing fact and fictionso that the one cannot be disentangled from