manner--that is, at its source, before it can develop full power, or from the sides (the vulnerable "flanks of a tiger"). S ECRETS OF THE S AMURAI , O SCAR R ATTI AND A DELE W ESTBROOK , 1973 The more subtle and indirect your maneuvers in life, the better. In 1801, Napoleon suddenly offered Russia the chance to become the protector of the island of Malta, then under French control. That would give the Russians an important base in the Mediterranean. The offer seemed generous, but Napoleon knew that the English would soon take control of the island, for they coveted it and had the forces in place to take it, and the French navy was too weak to hold it. The English and the Russians were allies, but their alliance would be endangered by a squabble over Malta. That discord was Napoleon's goal all along. The ultimate evolution of strategy is toward more and more indirection. An opponent who cannot see where you are heading is at a severe disadvantage. The more angles you use--like a cue ball in billiards caroming off several sides of the table--the harder it will be for your opponents to defend themselves. Whenever possible, calculate your moves to produce this caroming effect. It is the perfect disguise for your aggression. Authority: It is by turning the enemy, by attacking his flank, that battles are won. -- Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821) REVERSAL In politics, occupying the flank by taking a similar position to the other side, co- opting its ideas for your own purposes, is a powerful ploy, one that President Clinton used to great effect in his triangulations with the Republicans. This gives the opponent nothing to strike at, no room to maneuver. But staying too long on the opponent's flank can bring a price: the public--the real soft flank for any politician--loses its sense of what the triangulator stands for, what sets him and his party apart from the other side. Over time this can prove dangerous; polarity (see chapter 1)--creating the appearance of sharp differences--is more effective in the long run. Beware of occupying the opponent's flank at the expense of exposing your own. ENVELOP THE ENEMY THE ANNIHILATION STRATEGY People will use any kind of gap in your defenses to attack you or revenge themselves on you. So offer no gaps. The secret is to envelop your opponents-- create relentless pressure on them from all sides, dominate their attention, and close off their access to the outside world. Make your attacks unpredictable to create a vaporous feeling of vulnerability. Finally, as you sense their weakening resolve, crush their willpower by tightening the noose. The best encirclements are psychological--you have surrounded their minds. THE HORNS OF THE BEAST In December 1878 the British declared war on the Zulus, the warrior tribe of present-day South Africa. The rather flimsy pretext was border troubles between Zululand and the British state of Natal; the real aim was to destroy the Zulu army, the last remaining