weeks later,Machiavelli was sent to prison, vaguely implicated in a conspiracy against theMedicis. He was tortured but refused to talk, whether about his own involvementor that of others. Released from prison in March 1513, he retired in disgrace to asmall farm owned by his family a few miles outside Florence.Machiavelli had a close friend in a man called Francesco Vettori, who hadmanaged to survive the change in government and to ingratiate himself with theMedicis. In the spring of 1513, Vettori began to receive letters in whichMachiavelli described his new life. At night he would shut himself up in hisstudy and converse in his mind with great figures in history, trying to uncoverthe secrets of their power. He wanted to distill the many things he himself hadlearned about politics and statecraft. And, he wrote to Vettori, he was writing a little pamphlet called De principatibus--later titled The Prince--"where I dive asdeep as I can into ideas about this subject, discussing the nature of princely rule,what forms it takes, how these are acquired, how they are maintained, how theyare lost." The knowledge and advice imparted in this pamphlet would be morevaluable to a prince than the largest army--perhaps Vettori could show it to oneof the Medicis, to whom Machiavelli would gladly dedicate the work? It couldbe of great use to this family of "new princes." It could also revive Machiavelli'scareer, for he was despondent at his isolation from politics.Vettori passed the essay along to Lorenzo de' Medici, who accepted it withmuch less interest than he did two hunting dogs given to him at the same time.Actually, The Prince perplexed even Vettori: its advice was sometimes starklyviolent and amoral, yet its language was quite dispassionate and matter-of-fact--astrange and uncommon mix. The author wrote the truth, but a little too boldly.Machiavelli also sent the manuscript to other friends, who were equally unsurewhat to make of it. Perhaps it was intended as satire? Machiavelli's disdain foraristocrats with power but no brains was well known to his circle.Soon Machiavelli wrote another book, later known as The Discourses, adistillation of his talks with friends since his fall from grace. A series ofmeditations on politics, the book contained some of the same stark advice as theearlier work but was more geared toward the constitution of a republic than tothe actions of a single prince.Even more foolish is one who clings to words and phrases and thus tries toachieve understanding. It is like trying to strike the moon with a stick, orscratching a shoe because there is an itchy spot on the foot. It has nothing todo with the Truth.ZEN MASTER MUMON, 1183-1260Over the next few years, Machiavelli slowly returned to favor and wasallowed to participate in Florentine affairs. He wrote a play, Mandragola, which,though scandalous, was admired by the pope and staged at the Vatican; he wasalso commissioned to write a history of Florence. The Prince and TheDiscourses remained unpublished, but they circulated in manuscript among theleaders and politicians of Italy. Their audience was small, and when Machiavellidied