in 1527, the former secretary to the republic seemed destined to return tothe obscurity from which he came.After Machiavelli's death, however, those two unpublished works of hisbegan to circulate outside Italy. In 1529, Thomas Cromwell, the crafty ministerto Henry VIII of England, somehow got hold of a copy of The Prince and, unlike the flightier Lorenzo de' Medici, read it closely and carefully. To him the book'shistorical anecdotes made for a lively and entertaining read. The plain languagewas not bizarre but refreshing. Most important, the amoral advice was in factindispensable: the writer explained not only what a leader had to do to hold on topower but how to present his actions to the public. Cromwell could not help butadapt Machiavelli's counsel in his advice to the king.Published in several languages in the decades after Machiavelli's death, ThePrince slowly spread far and wide. As the centuries passed, it took on a life of itsown, in fact a double life: widely condemned as amoral, yet avidly read inprivate by great political figures down the ages. The French minister CardinalRichelieu made it a kind of political bible. Napoleon consulted it often. TheAmerican president John Adams kept it by his bedside. With the help of Voltaire,the Prussian king Frederick the Great wrote a tract called The Anti-Machiavel,yet he shamelessly practiced many of Machiavelli's ideas to the letter.As Machiavelli's books reached larger audiences, his influence extendedbeyond politics. Philosophers from Bacon to Hegel found in his writingsconfirmation for many of their own theories. Romantic poets such as Lord Byronadmired the energy of his spirit. In Italy, Ireland, and Russia, youngrevolutionaries discovered in The Discourses an inspiring call to arms and ablueprint for a future society.Over the centuries millions upon millions of readers have used Machiavelli'sbooks for invaluable advice on power. But could it possibly be the opposite--thatit is Machiavelli who has been using his readers? Scattered through his writingsand through his letters to his friends, some of them uncovered centuries after hisdeath, are signs that he pondered deeply the strategy of writing itself and thepower he could wield after his death by infiltrating his ideas indirectly anddeeply into his readers' minds, transforming them into unwitting disciples of hisamoral philosophy.Yoriyasu was a swaggering and aggressive samurai.... In the spring of 1341he was transferred from Kofu to Kamakura, where he visited Master Toden,the 45th teacher at Kenchoji, to ask about Zen. The teacher said, "It is tomanifest directly the Great Action in the hundred concerns of life. When it isloyalty as a samurai, it is the loyalty of Zen. 'Loyalty' is written with theChinese character made up of 'centre' and 'heart,' so it means the lord in thecentre of the man. There must be no wrong passions. But when this old priestlooks at the samurai today, there are some whose heart centre leans towardsname and money, and others where it is towards wine and lust, and withothers it is inclined towards power and bravado. They are all on those slopes, and cannot have a centred heart; how could