showing how muchof his own time and effort he was willing to sacrifice, Johnson earned theirrespect. Once he had that respect, criticism, even when harsh, became aneffective motivator, making his followers feel they were disappointing him. Atthe same time, some kind act out of the blue would break down any ability toresist him.Hannibal was the greatest general of antiquity by reason of his admirablecomprehension of the morale of combat, of the morale of the soldier, whetherhis own or the enemy's. He shows his greatness in this respect in all thedifferent incidents of war, of campaign, of action. His men were not betterthan the Roman soldiers. They were not as well-armed, one-half less innumber. Yet he was always the conqueror. He understood the value of morale.He had the absolute confidence of his people. In addition, he had the art, incommanding an army, of always securing the advantage of morale.COLONEL CHARLES ARDANT DU PICQ, 1821-70Understand: morale is contagious, and you, as leader, set the tone. Ask forsacrifices you won't make yourself (doing everything through assistants) andyour troops grow lethargic and resentful; act too nice, show too much concernfor their well-being, and you drain the tension from their souls and create spoiledchildren who whine at the slightest pressure or request for more work. Personalexample is the best way to set the proper tone and build morale. When yourpeople see your devotion to the cause, they ingest your spirit of energy and self-sacrifice. A few timely criticisms here and there and they will only try harder toplease you, to live up to your high standards. Instead of having to push and pullyour army, you will find them chasing after you. 3. In May of 218 B.C., the great general Hannibal, of Carthage in modernTunisia, embarked on a bold plan: he would lead an army through Spain, Gaul,and across the Alps into northern Italy. His goal was to defeat Rome's legions ontheir own soil, finally putting an end to Rome's expansionist policies.The Alps were a tremendous obstacle to military advance--in fact, the marchof an army across the high mountains was unprecedented. Yet in December ofthat year, after much hardship, Hannibal reached northern Italy, catching theRomans completely off guard and the region undefended. There was a price topay, however: of Hannibal's original 102,000 soldiers, a mere 26,000 survived, and they were exhausted, hungry, and demoralized. Worse, there was no time torest: a Roman army was on its way and had already crossed the Po River, only afew miles from the Carthaginian camp.On the eve of his army's first battle with the fearsome Roman legions,Hannibal somehow had to bring his worn-out men alive. He decided to put on ashow: gathering his army together, he brought in a group of prisoners and toldthem that if they fought one another to the death in a gladiatorial contest, thevictors would win freedom and a place in the Carthaginian army. The prisonersagreed, and Hannibal's soldiers were treated to hours of bloody entertainment, agreat distraction from their troubles.When the fighting was over,