defenses. When the negotiation failed and the war wasresumed, the American forces found that their battlefield advantage was lost.This pattern was repeated in the Vietnam War and to some extent in the GulfWar of 1991 as well. The Americans acted partly out of a desire to reducecasualties, partly to be seen as trying to bring these wars to an end as soon aspossible, to appear conciliatory. What they did not realize was that the enemy'sincentive to negotiate in good faith was lost in the process. In this case, trying tobe conciliatory and save lives led to much longer wars, more bloodshed, realtragedy. Had the United States continued to advance in Korea in 1951, it couldhave compelled the Koreans and Chinese to negotiate on its own terms; had itcontinued its bombing campaigns in Vietnam, it could have forced the NorthVietnamese to negotiate instead of procrastinate; had it continued its march allthe way to Baghdad in 1991, it could have forced Saddam Hussein out of officeas a condition of peace, preventing a future war and saving countless lives.The lesson is simple: by continuing to advance, by keeping up unrelentingpressure, you force your enemies to respond and ultimately to negotiate. If youadvance a little further every day, attempts to delay negotiation only make theirposition weaker. You are demonstrating your resolve and determination, notthrough symbolic gestures but by administering real pain. You do not continue toadvance in order to grab land or possessions but to put yourself in the strongestpossible position and win the war. Once you have forced them to settle, you haveroom to make concessions and give back some of what you've taken. In theprocess you might even seem nice and conciliatory.Sometimes in life you will find yourself holding the weak hand, the handwithout any real leverage. At those times it is even more important to keepadvancing. By demonstrating strength and resolve and maintaining the pressure,you cover up your weaknesses and gain footholds that will let you manufacture leverage for yourself.In June 1940, shortly after the German blitzkrieg had destroyed France'sdefenses and the French government had surrendered, General Charles de Gaullefled to England. He hoped to establish himself there as the leader of Free France,the legitimate government in exile, as opposed to the German-dominated Vichygovernment that now ruled much of the country. The odds were stacked heavilyagainst de Gaulle: he had never been a high-profile figure within France. Manybetter-known French soldiers and politicians could claim the role he wanted; hehad no leverage to make the allies recognize him as the leader of Free France,and without their recognition he would be powerless.From the beginning de Gaulle ignored the odds and presented himself to oneand all as the only man who could save France after its disgraceful surrender. Hebroadcast stirring speeches to France over the radio. He toured England and theUnited States, making a show of his sense of purpose, casting himself as a kindof latter-day Joan of Arc. He made important contacts within the FrenchResistance. Winston Churchill admired de Gaulle but often found