a [Mongol] army crossed their frontiers.THE ART OF WARFARE ON LAND, DAVID CHANDLER, 1974In 1880 the radicals were able to explode a bomb in the Winter Palace, theczar's residence in St. Petersburg. Then, finally, the following year another bombkilled Alexander himself. The government naturally responded with repressionstill harsher than the policy already in place, erecting a virtual police state. Inspite of this, in 1888, Alexander Ulianov--the brother of Vladimir Lenin and amember of Narodnaya Volia--nearly succeeded in killing Alexander's successor,Czar Alexander III.The capture and execution of Ulianov brought the activities of NarodnayaVolia to a close, but the group had already begun to inspire a wave of terroriststrikes internationally, including the anarchist assassinations of the Americanpresidents James A. Garfield in 1881 and William McKinley in 1901. And withNarodnaya all the elements of modern terrorism are in place. The group thoughtbombs better than guns, being more dramatic and more frightening. Theybelieved that if they killed enough ministers of the government, extendingupward to the czar himself, the regime would either collapse or go to extremes totry to defend itself. That repressive reaction, though, would in the long run playinto the radicals' hands, fomenting a discontent that would eventually spark arevolution. Meanwhile the bombing campaign would win the group coverage inthe press, indirectly publicizing their cause to sympathizers around the world.They called this "the propaganda of the deed.""This is what you should try for. An attempt upon a crowned head or on a president is sensational enough in a way, but not so much as it used to be. Ithas entered into a general conception of the existence of all chiefs of state.It's almost conventional--especially since so many presidents have beenassassinated. Now let us take an outrage upon--say a church. Horribleenough at first sight, no doubt, and yet not so effective as a person of anordinary mind might think. No matter how revolutionary and anarchist ininception, there would be fools enough to give such an outrage the characterof a religious manifestation. And that would detract from the especialalarming significance we wish to give to the act. A murderous attempt on arestaurant or a theatre would suffer in the same way from the suggestion ofnon-political passion; the exasperation of a hungry man, an act of socialrevenge. All this is used up; it is no longer instructive as an object lesson inrevolutionary anarchism. Every newspaper has ready-made phrases toexplain such manifestations away. I am about to give you the philosophy ofbomb throwing from my point of view; from the point of view you pretend tohave been serving for the last eleven years. I will try not to talk above yourhead. The sensibilities of the class you are attacking are soon blunted.Property seems to them an indestructible thing. You can't count upon theiremotions either of pity or fear for very long. A bomb outrage to have anyinfluence on public opinion now must go beyond the intention of vengeanceor terrorism. It must be purely destructive. It must be that, and only that,beyond the faintest suspicion of any other