in vile ways, sinklow. THE BHAGAVAD GITA: KRISHNA'S COUNSEL IN TIME OF WAR, CIRCAFIRST CENTURY A.D.After what later became known as the Tet Offensive was over,Westmoreland likened it to the Battle of the Bulge, near the end of World War II.There the Germans had managed to surprise the Allies by staging a bold incursion into eastern France. In the first few days, they had advanced rapidly,creating panic, but once the Allies recovered, they had managed to push theGermans back--and eventually it became apparent that the battle was theGerman military's death knell, their last shot. So it was, Westmoreland argued,with the North Vietnamese army at Khe Sanh and the Vietcong throughout theSouth: they had suffered terrible casualties, far more than the Americans had--infact, the entire Vietcong infrastructure had been wiped out. They would neverrecover; at long last the enemy had revealed itself and had been badly mauled.The Americans thought Tet had been a tactical disaster for the North. Butanother viewpoint began to trickle in from home: the drama at the U.S. embassy,the siege of Hue, and the attacks on air bases had kept millions of Americansglued to their television sets. Until then the Vietcong had operated mostly in thecountryside, barely visible to the American public. Now, for the first time, theywere apparent in major cities, wreaking havoc and destruction. Americans hadbeen told the war was winding down and winnable; these images said otherwise.Suddenly the war's purpose seemed less clear. How could South Vietnam remainstable in the face of this ubiquitous enemy? How could the Americans everclaim a clear victory? There was really no end in sight.American opinion polls tracked a sharp turn against the war. Antiwardemonstrations broke out all over the country. President Lyndon Johnson'smilitary advisers, who had been telling him that South Vietnam was comingunder control, now confessed that they were no longer so optimistic. In the NewHampshire Democratic primary that March, Johnson was stunned by his defeatby Senator Eugene McCarthy, who had galvanized the growing antiwarsentiment. Shortly thereafter Johnson announced that he would not run forreelection in the upcoming presidential race and that he would slowly disengageAmerican forces from Vietnam.The Tet Offensive was indeed the turning point in the Vietnam War, but notin the direction that Westmoreland and his staff had foreseen.At this the grey-eyed goddess Athena smiled, and gave him a caress, her looksbeing changed now, so she seemed a woman, tall and beautiful and no doubtskilled at weaving splendid things. She answered briskly: "Whoever getsaround you [Odysseus] must be sharp and guileful as a snake; even a godmight bow to you in ways of dissimulation. You! You chameleon! Bottomlessbag of tricks! Here in your own country would you not give your stratagems arest or stop spellbinding for an instant?...Two of a kind, we are, contrivers,both. Of all men now alive you are the best in plots and story telling. My ownfame is for wisdom among the gods--deceptions, too. THE ODYSSEY, HOMER, CIRCA NINTH CENTURY B.C.InterpretationFor the American strategists, the success of the war depended mostly on themilitary.