We waste so much time. Uponoccasion all of us have felt a sense of urgency. Most often it is imposed fromoutside: we fall behind in our work, we inadvertently take on more than we canhandle, responsibility for something is thrust into our hands. Now everythingchanges; no more freedom. We have to do this, we have to fix that. The surpriseis always how much more spirited and more alive this makes us feel; noweverything we do seems necessary. But eventually we go back to our normal patterns. And when that sense of urgency goes, we really do not know how to getit back.Leaders of armies have thought about this subject since armies existed: howcan soldiers be motivated, be made more aggressive, more desperate? Somegenerals have relied on fiery oratory, and those particularly good at it have hadsome success. But over two thousand years ago, the Chinese strategist Sun-tzucame to believe that listening to speeches, no matter how rousing, was toopassive an experience to have an enduring effect. Instead Sun-tzu talked of a"death ground"--a place where an army is backed up against some geographicalfeature like a mountain, a river, or a forest and has no escape route. Without away to retreat, Sun-tzu argued, an army fights with double or triple the spirit itwould have on open terrain, because death is viscerally present. Sun-tzuadvocated deliberately stationing soldiers on death ground to give them thedesperate edge that makes men fight like the devil. That is what Cortes did inMexico, and it is the only sure way to create a real fire in the belly. The world isruled by necessity: People change their behavior only if they have to. They willfeel urgency only if their lives depend on it.Taking advantage of the opportunity, they began to question Han Hsin."According to The Art of War , when one fights he should keep the hills to hisright or rear, and bodies of water in front of him or to the left," they said. "Yettoday you ordered us on the contrary to draw up ranks with our backs to theriver, saying 'We shall defeat Chao and feast together!' We were opposed tothe idea, and yet it has ended in victory. What sort of strategy is this?" "Thisis in The Art of War too," replied Han Hsin. "It is just that you have failed tonotice it! Does it not say in The Art of War : 'Drive them into a fatal positionand they will come out alive; place them in a hopeless spot and they willsurvive'? Moreover, I did not have at my disposal troops that I had trainedand led from past times, but was forced, as the saying goes, to round up menfrom the market place and use them to fight with. Under such circumstances,if I had not placed them in a desperate situation where each man was obligedto fight for his own life, but had allowed them to remain in a safe place, theywould have all run away. Then what good would they have been to me?""Indeed!"