emotion andsubject to wild mood swings. Yet the czar, behind his moralistic Christianfacade, was also aggressive in his own way, and ambitious; he itched to lead acrusade. In Metternich's eyes he was as dangerous as Napoleon had been: in thename of doing good for Europe, such a man might march his troops from oneend of the continent to the other, creating untold chaos.To stand in the way of Alexander's powerful army would be destructive initself. But the canny Metternich knew that to try to persuade the czar that he waswrong would have the unintended effect of feeding his insecurities and pushinghim to the left, making him more prone to take dangerous action on his own.Instead the prince would have to handle him like a child, diverting his energiesto the right through a passive-aggressive campaign.At times one has to deal with hidden enemies, intangible influences that slinkinto dark corners and from this hiding affect people by suggestion. Ininstances like this, it is necessary to trace these things back to the most secretrecesses, in order to determine the nature of the influences to be dealt with....The very anonymity of such plotting requires an especially vigorous andindefatigable effort, but this is well worth while. For when such elusiveinfluences are brought into the light and branded, they lose their power overpeople. THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.The passive part was simple: Metternich presented himself as compliant,going along with ideas that he actually disagreed with to the extreme. Heaccepted Alexander's request for a congress, for example, although he personallyopposed it. Then, in his private discussions with the czar at Troppau, he at firstjust listened, then enthusiastically agreed. The czar believed in demonstratingmoral unity? Then so did Metternich--although his own policies had always beenmore practical than moral; he was the master of realpolitik. He flattered personalqualities in the czar--moral fervor, for example--that he actually thoughtdangerous. He also encouraged the czar to go further with his ideas.Having disarmed Alexander's suspicions and resistance this way, Metternichat the same time operated aggressively. At Troppau he worked behind the scenesto isolate the czar from the other powers, so that the Russian leader becamedependent on him. Next he cleverly arranged those long hours of private meetings, in which he subtly infected the czar with the idea that revolution wasfar more dangerous than the status quo and diverted the Russian's radicalChristian crusade into an attack on liberalism itself. Finally, having mirroredAlexander's energy, his moods, his fervor, and his language, Metternich managedto lure him into sending troops against the rebellion in Piedmont. That actionboth committed Alexander in deed to the conservative cause and alienated himfrom the liberals of Europe. No longer could he spout vague, ambiguouspronouncements on the left; he had finally taken action, and it was in theopposite direction. Metternich's triumph was complete.In those days force and arms did prevail; but now the wit of the fox iseverywhere on foot, so hardly a faithful or virtuous man may be found.QUEEN ELIZABETH I, 1533-1603Although the phrase "passive aggression" has negative connotations