statistics, and isolatedorgans that can be dissected. This approach can yield a partial picture of reality,much in the way that dissecting a corpse can tell you some things about thehuman body. But with these simplifications the living, breathing element ismissing. You want to follow instead the Champollion model. You are not in ahurry. You prefer the holistic approach. You look at the object of study from asmany angles as possible, giving your thoughts added dimensions. You assumethat the parts of any whole interact with one another and cannot be completelyseparated. In your mind, you get as close to the complicated truth and reality ofyour object of study as possible. In the process, great mysteries will unravelthemselves before your eyes. themselves before your eyes.9. Alchemical Creativity and the UnconsciousThe artist Teresita Fernández (b. 1968) has long been fascinated by alchemy—anearly form of science whose goal was to transform base materials into gold. (Formore on Fernández, see pages 152—55.) Alchemists believed that nature itselfoperates through the constant interaction of opposites—earth and fire, sun andmoon, male and female, dark and light. By somehow reconciling theseopposites, the alchemist believed he could discover the deepest secrets of nature,gain the power to create something out of nothing, and turn dust into gold.To Fernández, the art of alchemy resembles in many ways the artistic andcreative process itself. First, a thought or idea stirs in the mind of the artist.Slowly he or she transforms this idea into a material work of art, which creates athird element, a response in the viewer—an emotion of some sort that the artistwishes to provoke. This is a magical process, the equivalent of creatingsomething out of nothing, a kind of transmutation of dirt into gold—in this case,the artist’s idea becoming realized, and leading to the stirring of powerfulemotions in the spectator.Alchemy depends on the reconciliation of various opposite qualities, and inthinking about herself, Fernández can identify many contrary impulses that arereconciled in her work. She is personally drawn to minimalism—a form ofexpression that communicates through the most minimal amount of material.She likes the discipline and rigor this paring down of materials imposes on herthinking process. At the same time she has a streak of romanticism, and aninterest in work that produces strong emotional reactions in viewers. In herwork, she likes to mix the sensual with the austere. She has noticed thatexpressing this and other tensions within herself gives her work a particularlydisorienting and dreamlike effect upon viewers.Since childhood, Fernández has always had a peculiar sense of scale. Shewould find it odd and disturbing that a relatively small space or room couldevoke a much larger and even a vast space by its layout or the arrangement ofwindows. Children are generally obsessed with scale, playing with miniaturizedversions of the adult world, yet feeling as if these miniatures represent realobjects that are much larger. We generally lose this interest as we get older, butin Fernández’s piece Eruption (2005), she brings us back to an awareness of thepotentially disturbing emotions that can be evoked by playing with