the process.The reason for this is simple. When we are consumed with a particularproject, our attention tends to become quite narrow as we focus so deeply. Wegrow tense. In this state, our mind responds by trying to reduce the amount ofstimuli we have to deal with. We literally close ourselves off from the world inorder to concentrate on what is necessary. This can have the unintendedconsequence of making it harder for us to see other possibilities, to be more openand creative with our ideas. When we are in a more relaxed state, our attentionnaturally broadens and we take in more stimuli.Many of the most interesting and profound discoveries in science occurwhen the thinker is not concentrating directly on the problem but is about to driftoff to sleep, or get on a bus, or hears a joke—moments of unstrained attention,when something unexpected enters the mental sphere and triggers a new andfertile connection. Such chance associations and discoveries are known asserendipity—the occurrence of something we are not expecting—and althoughby their nature you cannot force them to happen, you can invite serendipity into the creative process by taking two simple steps.The first step is to widen your search as far as possible. In the research stageof your project, you look at more than what is generally required. You expandyour search into other fields, reading and absorbing any related information. Ifyou have a particular theory or hypothesis about a phenomenon, you examine asmany examples and potential counterexamples as humanly possible. It mightseem tiring and inefficient, but you must trust this process. What ensues is thatthe brain becomes increasingly excited and stimulated by the variety ofinformation. As William James expressed it, the mind “transitions from one ideato another … the most unheard of combination of elements, the subtlestassociations of analogy; in a word, we seem suddenly introduced into a seethingcauldron of ideas, where everything is fizzling and bobbling about in a state ofbewildering activity.” A kind of mental momentum is generated, in which theslightest chance occurrence will spark a fertile idea.The second step is to maintain an openness and looseness of spirit. Inmoments of great tension and searching, you allow yourself moments of release.You take walks, engage in activities outside your work (Einstein played theviolin), or think about something else, no matter how trivial. When some newand unanticipated idea now enters your mind, you do not ignore it because it isirrational or does not fit the narrow frame of your previous work. You give itinstead full attention and explore where it leads you.Perhaps the greatest illustration of this would be the discovery by LouisPasteur of immunology and how contagious diseases can be prevented byinoculation. Pasteur spent years demonstrating that various diseases are causedby microorganisms or germs, a novel concept for the time. In developing hisgerm theory, he expanded his knowledge into all different branches of medicineand chemistry. In 1879 he was researching chicken cholera. He had preparedcultures of this disease, but the cholera work got interrupted by other projects,and for several months the cultures remained