over their minds. Meanwhile you aregiving them nothing of yourself; they cannot see through you. Yourcounterattack will come as a complete surprise to them.The counterattack is a particularly effective strategy against what might becalled "the barbarian"--the man or woman who is especially aggressive bynature. Do not be intimidated by these types; they are in fact weak and are easilyswayed and deceived. The trick is to goad them by playing weak or stupid whiledangling in front of them the prospect of easy gains.During the era of the Warring States in ancient China, the state of Qi founditself threatened by the powerful armies of the state of Wei. The Qi generalconsulted the famous strategist Sun Pin (a descendant of Suntzu himself), whotold him that the Wei general looked down on the armies of Qi, believing thattheir soldiers were cowards. That, said Sun Pin, was the key to victory. He proposed a plan: Enter Wei territory with a large army and make thousands ofcampfires. The next day make half that number of campfires, and the day afterthat, half that number again. Putting his trust in Sun Pin, the Qi general did as hewas told.The Wei general, of course, was carefully monitoring the invasion, and henoted the dwindling campfires. Given his predisposition to see the Qi soldiers ascowards, what could this mean but that they were defecting? He would advancewith his cavalry and crush this weak army; his infantry would follow, and theywould march into Qi itself. Sun Pin, hearing of the approaching Wei cavalry andcalculating how fast they were moving, retreated and stationed the Qi army in anarrow pass in the mountains. He had a large tree cut down and stripped of itsbark, then wrote on the bare log, "The general of Wei will die at this tree." He setthe log in the path of the pursuing Wei army, then hid archers on both sides ofthe pass. In the middle of the night, the Wei general, at the head of his cavalry,reached the place where the log blocked the road. Something was written on it;he ordered a torch lit to read it. The torchlight was the signal and the lure: the Qiarchers rained arrows on the trapped Wei horsemen. The Wei general, realizinghe had been tricked, killed himself.Sun Pin based his baiting of the Wei general on his knowledge of the man'spersonality, which was arrogant and violent. By turning these qualities to hisadvantage, encouraging his enemy's greed and aggression, Sun Pin could controlthe man's mind. You, too, should look for the emotion that your enemies are leastable to manage, then bring it to the surface. With a little work on your part, theywill lay themselves open to your counterattack.The other improvement was his father's inspiration. Lyndon Johnson was verydejected as he sat, on the day the Express poll appeared, in his parents' homein Johnson City after hours of campaigning, talking to his parents, hisbrother, his Uncle Tom, his cousin Ava Johnson Cox, and Ava's eight-year-oldson, William, known as "Corky." The leaders were almost