and, having completed hiscourse, now it was time to die. Perhaps his own words, written years before inhis notebook, would have come back to him in such a moment: “Just as a well-filled day brings blessed sleep, so a well-employed life brings a blessed death.”KEYS TO MASTERYAmong his various possible beings each man always finds one which is his genuine andauthentic being. The voice which calls him to that authentic being is what we call“vocation.” But the majority of men devote themselves to silencing that voice of the vocationand refusing to hear it. They manage to make a noise within themselves … to distract theirown attention in order not to hear it; and they defraud themselves by substituting for theirgenuine selves a false course of life.—JOSÉ ORTEGA Y GASSETMany of the greatest Masters in history have confessed to experiencing somekind of force or voice or sense of destiny that has guided them forward. ForNapoleon Bonaparte it was his “star” that he always felt in ascendance when hemade the right move. For Socrates, it was his daemon, a voice that he heard,perhaps from the gods, which inevitably spoke to him in the negative—tellinghim what to avoid. For Goethe, he also called it a daemon—a kind of spirit thatdwelled within him and compelled him to fulfill his destiny. In more moderntimes, Albert Einstein talked of a kind of inner voice that shaped the direction ofhis speculations. All of these are variations on what Leonardo da Vinciexperienced with his own sense of fate.Such feelings can be seen as purely mystical, beyond explanation, or ashallucinations and delusions. But there is another way to see them—as eminentlyreal, practical, and explicable. It can be explained in the following way:All of us are born unique. This uniqueness is marked genetically in ourDNA. We are a one-time phenomenon in the universe—our exact geneticmakeup has never occurred before nor will it ever be repeated. For all of us, thisuniqueness first expresses itself in childhood through certain primal inclinations.For Leonardo it was exploring the natural world around his village and bringingit to life on paper in his own way. For others, it can be an early attraction tovisual patterns—often an indication of a future interest in mathematics. Or it canbe an attraction to particular physical movements or spatial arrangements. Howcan we explain such inclinations? They are forces within us that come from adeeper place than conscious words can express. They draw us to certainexperiences and away from others. As these forces move us here or there, they influence the development of our minds in very particular ways.This primal uniqueness naturally wants to assert and express itself, but someexperience it more strongly than others. With Masters it is so strong that it feelslike something that has its own external reality—a force, a voice, destiny. Inmoments when we engage in an activity that corresponds to our deepestinclinations, we might experience a touch of this: We feel as if the words wewrite or the physical movements we perform come so quickly and easily