halting. (See pages 30 and66 for more on Einstein.) He had a strange habit of first muttering to himself thewords he was going to speak out loud. His parents were concerned that their sonmight have a mental deficiency, and they consulted a doctor. Soon, however, helost his hesitancy with words and revealed some hidden mental strengths—hewas good with puzzles, had a knack for certain sciences, and he loved playingthe violin, particularly anything by Mozart, whose music he would play over andover.The problems began again, however, as he advanced his way through school.He was not a particularly good student. He hated having to memorize so manyfacts and numbers. He hated the stern authority of the teachers. His grades weremediocre and, concerned for his future, the parents decided to send their sixteen-year-old son to a more liberal-minded school in the town of Aarau, near theirhome in Zurich. This school used a method developed by the Swiss educational home in Zurich. This school used a method developed by the Swiss educationalreformer Johann Pestalozzi, which emphasized the importance of learningthrough one’s own observations, leading to the development of ideas andintuitions. Even mathematics and physics were taught in this manner. Therewere no drills or facts to memorize; instead, the method placed supremeimportance on visual forms of intelligence, which Pestalozzi saw as the key tocreative thinking.In this atmosphere, young Einstein suddenly thrived. He found the placeintensely stimulating. The school encouraged students to learn on their own,wherever their inclinations would take them, and for Einstein this meant delvingeven more deeply into Newtonian physics (a passion of his) and recent advancesin the study of electromagnetism. In his studies of Newton while at Aarau, hecame upon some problems in the Newtonian concept of the universe that deeplytroubled him and caused him many sleepless nights.According to Newton, all phenomena in nature can be explained throughsimple mechanical laws. Knowing them, we can deduce the causes for almosteverything that happens. Objects move through space according to thesemechanical laws, such as laws of gravity, and all of these movements can bemeasured mathematically. It is a universe that is highly ordered and rational. ButNewton’s concept relied upon two assumptions that could never be proven orverified empirically: the existence of absolute time and space, both of whichwere thought to exist independently of living beings and objects. Without theseassumptions there would be no supreme standard of measurement. The brillianceof his system, however, was hard to call into question, considering that based onhis laws scientists could accurately measure the movements of sound waves, thediffusion of gases, or the motion of stars.In the late nineteenth century, however, certain cracks began to emerge inNewton’s concept of the mechanical universe. Based on the work of MichaelFaraday, the great Scottish mathematician James Maxwell made someinteresting discoveries about the properties of electromagnetism. Developingwhat became known as field theories, Maxwell asserted that electromagnetismshould not be described in terms of charged particles, but rather in terms offields in space that have the continual potential to be converted intoelectromagnetism; this field consists of vectors of