luxury but a critical strategic ploy: world opinion and alliances with other nations will prove crucial in isolating the terrorists and preventing them from sowing division. All this requires the willingness to wage the war over the course of many years, and mostly behind the scenes. Patient resolve and the refusal to overreact will serve as their own deterrents. Show you mean business and make your enemies feel it, not through the blustery front used for political purposes--this is not a sign of strength--but through the cool and calculating strategies you employ to corner them. In the end, in a world that is intimately interlinked and dependent on open borders, there will never be perfect security. The question is, how much threat are we willing to live with? Those who are strong can deal with a certain acceptable level of insecurity. Feelings of panic and hysteria reveal the degree to which the enemy has triumphed, as does an overly rigid attempt at defense, in which a society and culture at large are made hostage to a handful of men. Authority: There is no fate worse than being continuously under guard, for it means you are always afraid. --Julius Caesar (100-44 B.C. ) REVERSAL The reverse of terrorism would be direct and symmetrical war, a return to the very origins of warfare, to fighting that is up-front and honest, a simple test of strength against strength--essentially an archaic and useless strategy for modern times. SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY Alinsky, Saul D. Rules for Radicals . New York: Vintage Books, 1972. Beer, Sir Gavin de. Hannibal . New York: Viking, 1969. Brown, Anthony Cave. Bodyguard of Lies . New York: Bantam Books, 1976. Chambers, James. The Devil's Horsemen: The Mongol Invasion of Europe . New York: Atheneum, 1979. Chandler, David G. The Art of Warfare on Land . London: Penguin Books, 1974. ------. The Campaigns of Napoleon . New York: Macmillan, 1966. Clausewitz, Carl von. On War . Michael Howard and Peter Paret, eds. and trs. New York: Everyman's Library, 1993. Cohen, Eliot A. and John Gooch. Military Misfortunes: The Anatomy of Failure in War . New York: Vintage Books, 1991. Creveld, Martin van. Command in War . Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1985. Douglass, Frederick. My Bondage and My Freedom . New York: Penguin Books, 2003. Dupuy, Colonel T. N. A Genius for War: The German Army and General Staff, 1807-1945 . Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall Inc., 1977. Foote, Shelby. The Civil War: A Narrative (3 volumes). New York: Vintage Books, 1986. Green, Peter. The Greco-Persian Wars . Berkeley: University of California Press, 1998. Haley, Jay. Strategies of Psychotherapy . New York: Grune and Stratton, 1963. Hammond, Grant T. The Mind of War: John Boyd and American Security . Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 2001. Hart, B. H. Liddell. Strategy . New York: A Meridian Book, 1991. Kissinger, Henry. A World Restored . Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1957. Kjetsaa, Geir. Fyodor Dostoyevsky: A Writer's Life . Siri Hustvedt and David McDuff, trs. New