happy , honoured, truthful, and a universal Hero. Three HHH's make a man happy--Health, Holiness, and a Headpiece. Virtue is the sun of the microcosm, and has for hemisphere a good conscience. She is so beautiful that she ﬁnds favour with both God and man. Nothing is lovable but virtue, nothing detestable but vice. Virtue alone is serious, all else is but jest. A man's capacity and greatness are to be measured by his virtue and not by his fortune. She alone is all-suﬃcient. She makes men lovable in life, memorable after death. The Art of Worldly Wisdom, by Balthasar Gracian, tr. by Joseph Jacobs, [1892], at sacred-texts.com Also by Robert Greene Mastery The 50th Law (with 50 Cent) The 33 Strategies of War (a Joost Elffers Production) The Art of Seduction (a Joost Elffers Production) The 48 Laws of Power (a Joost Elffers Production) VIKING An imprint of Penguin Random House LLC 375 Hudson Street New York, New York 10014 penguinrandomhouse.com Copyright © 2018 by Robert Greene Penguin supports copyright. Copyright fuels creativity, encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing, scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without permission. You are supporting writers and allowing Penguin to continue to publish books for every reader. ISBN 9780525428145 (hardcover) ISBN 9780698184541 (ebook) ISBN 9780525561804 (international edition) Version_1 To my mother Contents Also by Robert Greene Title Page Copyright Dedication Introduction 1 Master Your Emotional Self The Law of Irrationality The Inner Athena Step One: Recognize the Biases Step Two: Beware the Inflaming Factors Step Three: Strategies Toward Bringing Out the Rational Self 2 Transform Self-love into Empathy The Law of Narcissism The Narcissistic Spectrum Examples of Narcissistic Types 3 See Through People’s Masks The Law of Role-playing The Second Language Observational Skills Decoding Keys The Art of Impression Management 4 Determine the Strength of People’s Character The Law of Compulsive Behavior The Pattern Character Signs Toxic Types The Superior Character 5 Become an Elusive Object of Desire The Law of Covetousness The Object of Desire Strategies for Stimulating Desire The Supreme Desire 6 Elevate Your Perspective The Law of Shortsightedness Moments of Madness Four Signs of Shortsightedness and Strategies to Overcome Them The Farsighted Human 7 Soften People’s Resistance by Confirming Their Self-opinion The Law of Defensiveness The Influence Game Five Strategies for Becoming a Master Persuader The Flexible Mind—Self-strategies 8 Change Your Circumstances by Changing Your Attitude The Law of Self-sabotage The Ultimate Freedom The Constricted (Negative) Attitude The Expansive (Positive) Attitude 9 Confront Your Dark Side The Law of Repression The Dark Side Deciphering the Shadow: Contradictory Behavior The Integrated Human 10 Beware the Fragile Ego The Law of Envy Fatal Friends Signs of Envy Envier Types Envy Triggers Beyond Envy 11 Know Your Limits The Law of Grandiosity The Success Delusion The Grandiose Leader Practical Grandiosity 12 Reconnect to the Masculine or