a great samurai named SasakiGanryu, who fought with a very long sword--a startlingly beautiful weapon,which seemed possessed of some warlike spirit. This fight would be Musashi's ultimate test. Ganryu accepted his challenge; the duel would take place on a littleisland near the samurai's home.It is a disease to be obsessed by the thought of winning. It is also a disease tobe obsessed by the thought of employing your swordsmanship. So it is to beobsessed by the thought of using everything you have learned, and to beobsessed by the thought of attacking. It is also a disease to be obsessed andstuck with the thought of ridding yourself of any of these diseases. A diseasehere is an obsessed mind that dwells on one thing. Because all these diseasesare in your mind, you must get rid of them to put your mind in order.TAKUAN, JAPAN, 1573-1645On the morning of the duel, the island was packed. A fight between suchwarriors was unprecedented. Ganryu arrived on time, but Musashi was late, verylate. An hour went by, then two; Ganryu was furious. Finally a boat was spottedapproaching the island. Its passenger was lying down, half asleep, it seemed,whittling at a long wooden oar. It was Musashi. He seemed lost in thought,staring into the clouds. When the boat came to shore, he tied a dirty towelaround his head and jumped out of the boat, brandishing the long oar--longerthan Ganryu's famous sword. This strange man had come to the biggest fight ofhis life with an oar for a sword and a towel for a headband.Ganryu called out angrily, "Are you so frightened of me that you havebroken your promise to be here by eight?" Musashi said nothing but steppedcloser. Ganryu drew his magnificent sword and threw the sheath onto the sand.Musashi smiled: "Sasaki, you have just sealed your doom." "Me? Defeated?Impossible!" "What victor on earth," replied Musashi, "would abandon hissheath to the sea?" This enigmatic remark only made Ganryu angrier.Then Musashi charged, aiming his sharpened oar straight for his enemy'seyes. Ganryu quickly raised his sword and struck at Musashi's head but missed,only cutting the towel headband in two. He had never missed before. In almostthe same instant, Musashi brought down his wooden sword, knocking Ganryuoff his feet. The spectators gasped. As Ganryu struggled up, Musashi killed himwith a blow to the head. Then, after bowing politely to the men officiating overthe duel, he got back into the boat and left as calmly as he had arrived.From that moment on, Musashi was considered a swordsman without peer.Anyone can plan a campaign, but few are capable of waging war, becauseonly a true military genius can handle the developments and circumstances.NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, 1769-1821 InterpretationMiyamoto Musashi, author of The Book of Five Rings, won all his duels for onereason: in each instance he adapted his strategy to his opponent and to thecircumstances of the moment. With Matashichiro he decided it was time toarrive early, which he hadn't done in his previous fights. Victory against superiornumbers depended on surprise, so he leaped up