first series of jobs working on various designelements for feedlots throughout the Southwest. For meatpacking plants, shedevised cattle ramps and restrainer systems that were infinitely more humanethan what was there before. Some of this was accomplished through attention tosimple details, such as making a ramp curved so the cattle could not see anythingto the sides or too far ahead, which kept them calmer. At another site, sheredesigned the dip vat so that the incline leading to it sloped gently and had deepgrooves in the concrete to help them with their footing. The drop into the waterwas ever so slight. She also redesigned the area where they dried off, making it amuch more placid environment for them.In the case of the dip vat, the cowboys and fieldworkers would stare at her asif she were from Mars. They secretly mocked her “touchy-feely” approach tofarm animals. But when her design was finished, they would watch inamazement as the cattle would blithely approach the dip vat and plop into it withhardly a sound or a complaint. There were no injuries or deaths, and no time lostwith pileups or group panic. Such an increase in efficiency would occur in all ofher other designs, and this would win her begrudging respect from the skepticalmen on the job. Slowly, she was making a name for herself in the field, andconsidering how far she had come from her earliest days as a severely impairedautistic child, such achievements gave her an incredible feeling of pride.As the years went by, her knowledge of cattle continued to grow, boththrough research and through frequent contact with them. Soon her work through research and through frequent contact with them. Soon her workexpanded to other farm animals, such as hogs, and later to antelope and elk. Shebecame a sought-after consultant to farms and zoos. She seemed to possess asixth sense for the inner lives of the animals she dealt with and a remarkablepower to calm them down. She herself felt that she had reached a point whereshe could imagine the thought processes of these various animals. This wasbased both on her intense scientific investigations and a great deal of thinkinginside their minds. She determined, for instance, that animals’ memory andthinking is largely driven by images and other sense traces. Animals are morethan capable of learning, but their reasoning process cycles through images.Although we might find it hard to imagine such thinking, before the invention oflanguage we reasoned in a similar way. The distance between humans andanimals is not nearly as great as we like to believe, and this connectionfascinated her.With cattle, she could read their moods by the movement of their ears, thelook in their eyes, the tension she could feel through their skin. In studying thebrain dynamics of cattle, she had the strange feeling that they resembled peoplewith autism in many ways. A scan of her own brain revealed that she possessedfear centers that were three times larger than normal. She always had to managehigher levels of anxiety than most other people, and