an abrupt end. Itwas her mother who had always protected and sheltered Zora from her father,who thought her strange and unlikeable. Eager to have her out of the house, heshipped her off to a school in Jacksonville. A few years later, he stopped payingher tuition and essentially abandoned her to the world. For five years shewandered from one relative’s house to another. She took up all kinds of jobs tosupport herself, mostly housekeeping.Thinking back to her childhood, she could remember a sense of expansion—learning about other cultures and their history, learning about her own culture.There seemed to be no limits to what she could explore. Now, it was theopposite. Worn down by work and depression, everything was tightening aroundher until all she could think about was her own tiny world and how sorry it hadbecome. Soon it would be hard to imagine anything besides cleaning houses. Butthe paradox is that the mind is essentially free. It can travel anywhere, acrosstime and space. If she kept it confined to her narrow circumstances, it would beher own fault. No matter how impossible it seemed, she could not let go of herdream to become a writer. To realize this dream, she would have to educateherself and keep her mental horizons expanding by whatever means necessary. Awriter needs knowledge of the world. And so, thinking in this way, Zora NealeHurston proceeded to create for herself one of the most remarkable self-directedapprenticeships in history.Since the only jobs she could get at that moment were housecleaning, shemanaged to land work in the homes of the wealthiest white people in town—there she would find plenty of books. Snatching a few moments here and there,she would read portions of these books on the sly, quickly memorizing passagesso she could have something to go over in her head in her free time. One day,she discovered a discarded copy of Milton’s Paradise Lost in a garbage can. Itwas as good as gold for her. She took it wherever she went, and read it over andover. In this way, her mind did not stagnate; she had created for herself a strangesort of literary education.In 1915, she landed a job as a lady’s maid to the lead singer of an all-whitetraveling troupe of performers. For most, this would mean yet anothersubservient position, but for Hurston it was a godsend. Many of the members ofthe troupe were well educated. There were books everywhere to read andinteresting conversations to overhear. By observing closely, she could see whatpassed for sophistication in the white world, and how she could make herselfcharming to them with her stories of Eatonville and her knowledge of literature.As part of the job, they had her trained as a manicurist. She would later use thisskill to find jobs in the barbershops in Washington D.C., near the Capitol. The skill to find jobs in the barbershops in Washington D.C., near the Capitol. Theclientele included the most powerful politicians of the time, and they wouldoften gossip as if she weren’t even there. For her,