Wanting to win, he wouldunderestimate the enemy's strength or overestimate his own. When Xerxes ofPersia invaded Greece in 480 B.C., he thought he had a perfectly rational plan.There was much he had not taken into account, and disaster followed.Other rulers actually won their battles only to grow drunk on victory and notknow when to stop, stirring up implacable hatred, distrust, and the desire forrevenge all around them, culminating in war on several fronts and total defeat--as in the destruction of the warlike Assyrian Empire, its capital of Nineveheternally buried in the sand. In cases like that, victory in battle brought onlydanger, exposing the conqueror to ruinous cycles of attack and counterattack. In ancient times, strategists and historians from Sun-tzu to Thucydidesbecame conscious of this recurring self-destructive pattern in warfare and beganto work out more rational ways to fight. The first step was to think beyond theimmediate battle. Supposing you won victory, where would it leave you--betteroff or worse? To answer that question, the logical step was to think ahead, to thethird and fourth battles on, which connected like links in a chain. The result wasthe concept of the campaign, in which the strategist sets a realistic goal and plotsseveral steps ahead to get there. Individual battles matter only in the way they setup the next ones down the line; an army can even deliberately lose a battle aspart of a long-term plan. The victory that matters is that of the overall campaign,and everything is subordinated to that goal.Forgetting our objectives. --During the journey we commonly forget its goal.Almost every profession is chosen and commenced as a means to an end butcontinued as an end in itself. Forgetting our objectives is the most frequent ofall acts of stupidity.FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1844-1900This kind of strategy represented a qualitative advance. Think of chess,where the grand master, instead of focusing only on the move at hand andmaking it solely in reaction to what the other player has just done, must visualizethe entire chessboard deep into the future, crafting an overall strategy, using themoves of the pawns now to set up those of the more powerful pieces later on.Thinking in terms of the campaign gave strategy a new depth. The strategist usedmore and more of the map.War on this level required that the strategist think deeply in all directionsbefore launching the campaign. He had to know the world. The enemy was justone part of the picture; the strategist also had to anticipate the reactions of alliesand neighboring states--any missteps with them and the entire plan couldunravel. He had to imagine the peace after the war. He had to know what hisarmy was capable of over time and ask no more of it than that. He had to berealistic. His mind had to expand to meet the complexities of the task--and allthis before a single blow was exchanged.Yet strategic thinking on this level yielded limitless benefits. A victory onthe battlefield would not seduce the leader into an unconsidered move that mightultimately set the campaign back, nor would