fighter baits opponents by staying calm and patient, getting them tomake the first aggressive move. As they come at the fighter and either strike athim or grab hold of him--either push or pull--the fighter moves with them, usingtheir strength against them. As he deftly steps forward or back at the rightmoment, the force of their own momentum throws them off balance: often theyactually fall, and even if they don't, they leave themselves vulnerable to a counterblow. Their aggression becomes their weakness, for it commits them toan obvious attack, exposing their strategy and making it hard for them to stop.In politics, jujitsu style yields endless benefits. It gives you the ability tofight without seeming aggressive. It saves energy, for your opponents tire whileyou stay above the fray. And it widens your options, allowing you to build onwhat they give you.Aggression is deceptive: it inherently hides weakness. Aggressors cannotcontrol their emotions. They cannot wait for the right moment, cannot trydifferent approaches, cannot stop to think about how to take their enemies bysurprise. In that first wave of aggression, they seem strong, but the longer theirattack goes on, the clearer their underlying weakness and insecurity become. It iseasy to give in to impatience and make the first move, but there is more strengthin holding back, patiently letting the other person make the play. That innerstrength will almost always prevail over outward aggression.Time is on your side. Make your counterattacks swift and sudden--like thecat who creeps on padded paws to suddenly pounce on its prey. Make jujitsuyour style in almost everything you do: it is your way of responding toaggression in everyday life, your way of facing circumstances. Let events cometo you, saving valuable time and energy for those brief moments when you blazewith the counterattack.The soundest strategy in war is to postpone operations until the moraldisintegration of the enemy renders the delivery of the mortal blow bothpossible and easy.--Vladimir Lenin (1870-1924)KEYS TO WARFAREThousands of years ago, at the dawn of military history, various strategists indifferent cultures noticed a peculiar phenomenon: in battle, the side that was onthe defensive often won in the end. There seemed to be several reasons for this.First, once the aggressor went on the attack, he had no more surprises in store--the defender could clearly see his strategy and take protective action. Second, ifthe defender could somehow turn back this initial attack, the aggressor would beleft in a weak position; his army was disorganized and exhausted. (It requiresmore energy to take land than to hold it.) If the defenders could take advantageof this weakness to deliver a counterblow, they could often force the aggressor toretreat. Based on these observations, the art of the counterattack was developed. Itsbasic tenets were to let the enemy make the first move, actively baiting him intoan aggressive attack that would expend his energy and unbalance his lines, thentaking advantage of his weakness and disorganization. This art was refined bytheorists such as Sun-tzu and practiced to perfection by leaders like Philip ofMacedon.The counterattack is, in fact,