from his supply lines, begana march east from Atlanta to Savannah and the sea. His men lived off the land,destroying everything in their path. Unencumbered by supply wagons, theymoved with incredible speed. The four parallel columns were far enough apartthat the southern forces could not tell where they were headed. The southerncolumn seemed headed for Macon, the northern for Augusta. Confederate forcesscrambled to cover both places, leaving the center open--which was exactlywhere Sherman planned to advance. Keeping the South on what he called "thehorns of a dilemma," off balance and mystified as to his intentions, Shermanmarched all the way to Savannah with hardly a battle.The Olympians could now join battle with the giants. Heracles let loose hisfirst arrow against Alcyoneus, the enemy's leader. He fell to the ground, butsprang up again revived, because this was his native soil of Phlegra. "Quick,noble Heracles!" cried Athene. "Drag him away to another country!"Heracles caught Alcyoneus up on his shoulders, and dragged him over theThracian border, where he despatched him with a club.THE GREEK MYTHS, VOL. 1, ROBERT GRAVES, 1955The effect of this march was devastating. For the Confederate soldiers stillfighting in Virginia, the ruin of Georgia--where many had left behind homes--was a terrible blow to their morale. Sherman's march cast a mood of deep gloomover the entire South. Slowly but surely it was losing its will to keep up the fight,Sherman's goal all along.InterpretationIn any conflict it is often the weaker side that in fact controls the dynamic. Inthis case the South was in control in both the strategic and the grand-strategicsense. In their immediate, local strategy, the Confederates had entrenchedthemselves in powerful defensive positions in Georgia and Virginia. Thetemptation for the North was to fight on the enemy's terms, to hurl division afterdivision against these positions, at tremendous loss of life and with little chanceof advancing. In the South's grand strategy, the longer this stalemate prevailed,the more likely Lincoln was to be thrown out of office. Then the war would endthrough negotiation. The South set the tempo for the battle (slow and grinding)and controlled the stakes.As Sherman saw it, his goal was not to capture a city or to defeat theConfederates in battle. In his view the only way to win the war was to regain control of the dynamic. Instead of brutal, frontal attacks against Dalton orAtlanta, which would play into the South's hands, he operated indirectly. Hefrightened the timid Johnston into abandoning his stronghold and goaded therash Hood into senseless attacks, in both instances playing upon the psychologyof the opponent to force the issue. By constantly putting his enemy on the hornsof a dilemma, where both staying put and moving were equally dangerous, hetook control of the situation without having to waste men in battle. Mostimportant, by demonstrating to the South with his destructive march that thelonger the war dragged on, the worse it would be for them, he regained grand-strategic control of the war. For the Confederates, to keep fighting was slowsuicide.The worst dynamic in war, and in life,