hunger to learn. This position is of course only temporary. You are reverting toa feeling of dependence, so that within five to ten years you can learn enough tofinally declare your independence and enter full adulthood.4. Trust the processCesar Rodriguez’s father was a lifelong officer in the U.S. Army, but whenCesar (b. 1959) chose to attend the Citadel, the Military College of SouthCarolina, it was not because he was determined to follow in his father’sfootsteps. He was probably heading toward a career in business. He decided,however, that he needed some discipline in life, and there was no more rigorousenvironment than the Citadel.One morning in 1978, during his sophomore year, Rodriguez’s roommatetold him that he was going to take the exams that the army, navy, and air forcewere offering for entrance into the aviation branches of their forces. Rodriguezdecided to come along and take the exams just for the hell of it. To his surprise, decided to come along and take the exams just for the hell of it. To his surprise,a few days later he was notified that he had been accepted by the air force fortheir pilot training program. The initial training, to take place while he was stillat the Citadel, meant taking flying lessons in a Cessna. Figuring that would befun, he entered the program, not entirely sure how far he would take it. Hepassed the training exams rather easily. He enjoyed the mental challenge, thecomplete focus that flying required. Perhaps it would be interesting to take thenext step. And so, after graduating from the Citadel in 1981, he was sent to theten-month pilot instruction school at Vance Air Force Base in Oklahoma.At Vance, however, he discovered that he was suddenly in over his head.Now they were training on a subsonic jet, the T-37. He had to wear a ten-poundhelmet and a forty-pound parachute on his back. The cockpit was unbearablysmall and hot. The instructor sat uncomfortably close in the seat beside him,observing his every move. The stress of performing, the heat, the physicalpressures of flying at such speeds would make him sweat profusely and shake.He felt as though the jet itself was pounding and beating him as he flew. Andthen there were so many more variables to be aware of in flying a jet.Working on the simulator, he could fly with relative confidence and feel as ifhe were in control. But once he was strapped into the jet itself he could notsuppress a feeling of panic and uncertainty—his mind could not keep up with allof the information he had to process, and it was difficult to prioritize his tasks.Much to his dismay, several months into training he received failing marks ontwo consecutive flights, and was benched from flying for an entire week.He had never failed at anything before; it was a matter of pride that he hadconquered everything that had been presented to him so far in life. Now he faceda possibility that would devastate him. Seventy students had started out in thecourse, but almost every week