you must lose your fear--of death, of the consequences of a bold maneuver,of other people's opinion of you. That single moment will suddenly open upvistas of possibilities. And in the end whichever side has more possibilities forpositive action has greater control. 5. Early in his career, the American psychiatrist Milton H. Erickson (1901-80)noticed that patients had countless ways of controlling the relationship betweenpatient and therapist. They might withhold information from him or resistentering into a hypnotic trance (Erickson often used hypnosis in his therapy);they might question the therapist's abilities, insist he do more of the talking, oremphasize the hopelessness of their problems and the futility of therapy. These attempts at control in fact mirrored whatever their problem was in daily life: theyresorted to all kinds of unconscious and passive games of domination whiledenying to themselves and to others they were up to such tricks. And so, over theyears, Erickson developed what he called his "Utilization Technique"--literallyusing these patients' passive aggression, their clever manipulations, asinstruments to change them.Erickson often dealt with patients whom someone else--a partner, a parent--had forced to seek his help. Resentful of this, they would get revenge bydeliberately withholding information about their lives. Erickson would begin bytelling these patients that it was natural, even healthy, not to want to revealeverything to the therapist. He would insist they withhold any sensitiveinformation. The patients would then feel trapped: by keeping secrets they wereobeying the therapist, which was just the opposite of what they wanted to do.Usually by the second session, they would open up, rebelling to such an extentthat they revealed everything about themselves.One man, on his first visit to Erickson's office, began anxiously pacing theroom. By refusing to sit down and relax, he was making it impossible forErickson to hypnotize him or work with him at all. Erickson began by askinghim, "Are you willing to cooperate with me by continuing to pace the floor asyou are doing now?" The patient agreed to this strange request. Then Ericksonasked if he could tell the patient where to pace and how fast. The patient couldsee no problem with this. Minutes later Erickson began to hesitate in giving hisdirections; the patient waited to hear what he was to do next with his pacing.After this happened a few times, Erickson finally told him to sit in a chair, wherethe man promptly fell into a trance.It is not the same when a fighter moves because he wants to move, andanother when he moves because he has to.JOE FRAZIER, 1944With those who were patently cynical about therapy, Erickson woulddeliberately try a method of hypnosis that would fail, and then he wouldapologize for using that technique. He would talk about his own inadequaciesand the many times he had failed. Erickson knew that these types needed to one-up the therapist, and that once they felt they had gained the advantage, theywould unconsciously open themselves up to him and fall easily into a trance.A woman once came to Erickson complaining that her husband used hissupposedly weak heart to keep