HARDY, 1840-1928At last, on March 11, the British fleet set sail. Instead of heading forCopenhagen, however, Parker anchored well to the north of the city's harbor andcalled a meeting of his captains. According to intelligence reports, he explained,the Danes had prepared elaborate defenses for Copenhagen. Boats anchored inthe harbor, forts to the north and south, and mobile artillery batteries could blastthe British out of the water. How to fight this artillery without terrible losses?Also, pilots who knew the waters around Copenhagen reported that they weretreacherous, places of sandbars and tricky winds. Navigating these dangers underbombardment would be harrowing. With all of these difficulties, perhaps it wasbest to wait for the Danes to leave harbor and then fight them in open sea.Nelson struggled to control himself. Finally he let loose, pacing the room,the stub of his lost arm jerking as he spoke. No war, he said, had ever been wonby waiting. The Danish defenses looked formidable "to those who are children atwar," but he had worked out a strategy weeks earlier: he would attack from thesouth, the easier approach, while Parker and a reserve force would stay to thecity's north. Nelson would use his mobility to take out the Danish guns. He hadstudied the maps: sandbars were no threat. As for the wind, aggressive actionwas more important than fretting over wind.Nelson's speech energized Parker's captains. He was by far their mostsuccessful leader, and his confidence was catching. Even Sir Hyde was impressed, and the plan was approved.So Grant was alone; his most trusted subordinates besought him to changehis plans, while his superiors were astounded at his temerity and strove tointerfere. Soldiers of reputation and civilians in high places condemned, inadvance, a campaign that seemed to them as hopeless as it wasunprecedented. If he failed, the country would concur with the Governmentand the Generals. Grant knew all this, and appreciated his danger, but was asinvulnerable to the apprehensions of ambition as to the entreaties offriendship, or the anxieties even of patriotism. That quiet confidence inhimself which never forsook him, and which amounted indeed almost to afeeling of fate, was uninterrupted. Having once determined in a matter thatrequired irreversible decision, he never reversed, nor even misgave, but wassteadily loyal to himself and his plans. This absolute and implicit faith was,however, as far as possible from conceit or enthusiasm; it was simply aconsciousness or conviction, rather, which brought the very strength itbelieved in; which was itself strength, and which inspired others with a trustin him, because he was able thus to trust himself.MILITARY HISTORY OF ULYSSES S. GRANT, ADAM BADEAU, 1868The next morning Nelson's line of ships advanced on Copenhagen, and thebattle began. The Danish guns, firing on the British at close range, took a fiercetoll. Nelson paced the deck of his flagship, HMS Elephant, urging his men on.He was in an excited, almost ecstatic state. A shot through the mainmast nearlyhit him: "It is warm work, and this day may be the last to any of us at anymoment," he told a colonel,