in his pupil. Onone occasion he decided to expand Gould’s repertoire, introducing him to themusic of Arnold Schoenberg—the great composer of atonal music whose workGuerrero liked to champion. Expecting his pupil to be excited by the newness ofthe sound, he was surprised instead to see an expression of complete disgust.Gould took the sheet music home with him, but apparently he never practicedthe pieces, and Guerrero let the matter drop. Then, a few weeks later, he sharedwith his teacher some of his own recent compositions—interesting work thatwas clearly inspired by Schoenberg. Soon after that, he brought in sheet musicthat he wanted to practice with Guerrero—all atonal music from variouscomposers, including Schoenberg, but not the pieces Guerrero had originallygiven him. He had obviously been studying the music on his own and haddecided he liked it.It became almost impossible for Guerrero to gauge how Gould wouldrespond to his ideas. For instance, he recommended to his pupils that they learnand memorize a piece by studying it on paper, before ever trying to play it. Inthis way, it would come alive first in their minds and they would be able toenvision it as a whole, instead of merely playing the notes. Gould dutifullyfollowed this advice with a particular composition of Bach’s, but when theydiscussed the structure and concept behind the piece, the young man had his ownnotions that were rather strange and quite contrary to Guerrero’s, which Gouldfound romantic and quaint. On another occasion Guerrero revealed his idea thatit was often best to imagine you were playing a piano piece by Bach as if it wereon a harpsichord. Gould warmed to this idea, then a few months later said that hepreferred imagining a different instrument with Bach. preferred imagining a different instrument with Bach.Guerrero’s most important ideas revolved around the physical aspects ofplaying the piano. He had spent years studying human physiology, particularlyanything related to the hands and fingers. His goal was to impart in his pupils arelaxed yet powerful style, in which they would gain complete command of thekeyboard with fingers that had a lightning touch. He spent hours indoctrinatingGould in his approach, working on the peculiar posture he advocated—a kind ofslump or hunch over the keyboard, with all of the action coming from the lowerback and hands, the shoulders and arms completely still. He demonstrated thistechnique endlessly to his pupil. He gave Gould all kinds of unusual exercises hehad developed to strengthen the fingers. Gould seemed interested enough, but aswith everything, Guerrero had the impression he would soon forget it all and gohis own way.As the years went by, Gould began to argue with his teacher more and more.He found Guerrero’s ideas and approach to music too Latin, too mired in anotherera. Finally, at the age of nineteen, Gould announced that he was going toproceed on his own. He had no more need for a mentor, a fact that Guerrerograciously accepted. It was clear that by now the young man needed to workthrough his own ideas about music and performing.Over the years, however,