our sense ofscale. The piece is a relatively small floor sculpture in the shape of a blob thatresembles an artist’s palette. It consists of thousands of clear glass beads layeredon the surface. Below the beads lies an enlarged image of an abstract painting, which makes the beads reflect various colors, giving the piece the distinct lookof the mouth of a bubbling volcano. We cannot see the underlying image, andwe are not aware that the beads themselves are clear. Our eye is simply drawninto the effect, as we imagine much more than is actually there. In the smallestof spaces she has thus created a feeling of a deep and vast landscape. We know itis an illusion, but are moved by the sensations and tensions that the piece creates.In making work for an outdoor public space, artists generally go in one oftwo directions—creating something that blends into the landscape in aninteresting way, or instead making something that stands out from thesurroundings and calls attention to itself. In creating her piece Seattle CloudCover (2006)—at the Olympic Sculpture Park in Seattle, Washington—Fernández navigated a space between these two opposite approaches. Along thelength of an outdoor pedestrian bridge spanning railroad tracks, she placed largecolored glass panes, laminated with photographic images of clouds. The panes,which also extend overhead, are semitransparent and are marked with hundredsof clear polka dots at equal lengths that reveal bits of the sky above. As peoplewalk along the bridge, they see above them realistic photographic images ofclouds, often standing out against the usual grey skies of Seattle, or sometimesbrightened by the sun, or turning kaleidoscopic at sunset. Moving over thebridge, the alternation between real and unreal makes it hard for us to distinguishbetween the two—a surreal effect that causes powerful feelings of disorientationin the viewer.Perhaps the ultimate expression of Fernández’s alchemy can be experiencedin her piece Stacked Waters (2009) at the Blanton Museum of Art in Austin,Texas. For this commission, she was confronted with the challenge of creating astriking piece for the vast open space of the museum’s multilayered atrium, anentryway to the rest of the museum. The atrium is generally bathed in brightlight from the large skylights on the ceiling. Instead of struggling to create asculpture for such a space, Fernández attempted to invert our whole experienceof art. When people enter a museum or gallery space, it is most often with asense of distance and coldness; they stand back and view something for a fewmoments, then move on. Aiming for a more visceral contact with the viewerthan a traditional sculpture could provide, she decided to use the cold whitewalls of the atrium and its constant flow of patrons as the basis for heralchemical experiment.She covered the walls with bands of thousands of highly reflective acrylicstrips, saturated in swirls of color from shades of blue to white. The overalleffect from standing in the atrium is that of being immersed in an enormous poolof blue water that shimmers from the sunlight above. As people ascend the of blue water that shimmers from the