right people, and not on acquiring skills. It will be toocostly for you to make mistakes and learn from them, so you will develop a costly for you to make mistakes and learn from them, so you will develop acautious, conservative approach. As you progress in life, you will becomeaddicted to the fat paycheck and it will determine where you go, how you think,and what you do. Eventually, the time that was not spent on learning skills willcatch up with you, and the fall will be painful.Instead, you must value learning above everything else. This will lead you toall of the right choices. You will opt for the situation that will give you the mostopportunities to learn, particularly with hands-on work. You will choose a placethat has people and mentors who can inspire and teach you. A job with mediocrepay has the added benefit of training you to get by with less—a valuable lifeskill. If your apprenticeship is to be mostly on your own time, you will choose aplace that pays the bills—perhaps one that keeps your mind sharp, but that alsoleaves you the time and mental space to do valuable work on your own. Youmust never disdain an apprenticeship with no pay. In fact, it is often the height ofwisdom to find the perfect mentor and offer your services as an assistant for free.Happy to exploit your cheap and eager spirit, such mentors will often divulgemore than the usual trade secrets. In the end, by valuing learning above all else,you will set the stage for your creative expansion, and the money will soon cometo you.2. Keep expanding your horizonsFor the writer Zora Neale Hurston (1891–1960), her childhood represented akind of Golden Age. She grew up in Eatonville, Florida, a town that wassomething of an anomaly in the South. It had been founded as an all-blacktownship in the 1880s, governed and managed by its citizens. Its only strugglesand sufferings came at the hands of its own inhabitants. For Zora, racism had nomeaning. A spirited and strong-willed girl, she spent a lot of her time alone,wandering through the town.She had two great passions in those years. First, she loved books andreading. She read everything she could get her hands on, but she was particularlydrawn to books on mythology—Greek, Roman, and Norse. She identified withthe strongest characters—Hercules, Odysseus, Odin. Second, she would spendmuch of her time listening to the stories of locals as they gathered on porchesand gossiped or related folk tales, many of them dating back to the years ofslavery. She loved their manner of telling stories—the rich metaphors, thesimple lessons. In her mind, the Greek myths and the stories of Eatonvillecitizens all blended into one reality—human nature revealed in its most nakedform. Walking alone, her imagination would take flight, and she would begintelling her own strange tales to herself. Someday she would write all of thisdown and become the Homer of Eatonville. down and become the Homer of Eatonville.Then in 1904 her mother died, and the Golden Age came to