characteristics and properties of persons than those of vegetables and minerals. It is indeed one of the shrewdest things in life. Y ou can tell metals by their ring and men by their voice. W ords are proof of integrity , deeds still more. Here one requires extraordinary care, deep observation, subtle discernment, and judicious decision. ccxcii Let your personal Qualities surpass those of your Office, Let it not be the other way about. How-ever high the post, the person should be higher. An extensive capacity expands and dilates more and more as his oﬃce becomes higher. On the other hand, the narrow-minded will easily lose heart and come to grief with diminished responsibilities and reputation. The great Augustus thought more of being a great man than a great prince. Here a lofty mind ﬁnds ﬁt place, and well-grounded conﬁdence ﬁnds its opportunity . ccxciii Maturity . It is shown in the costume, still more in the customs. Material weight is the sign of a precious metal; moral, of a precious man. Maturity gives ﬁnish to his capacity and arouses respect. A composed bearing in a man forms a facade to his soul. It does not consist in the insensibility of fools, as frivolity would have it, but in a calm tone of authority . With men of this kind sentences are orations and acts are deeds. Maturity ﬁnishes a man oﬀ, for each is so far a complete man according as he possesses maturity . On ceasing to be a child a man begins to gain seriousness and authority . ccxciv Be moderate in your Views. Every one holds views according to his interest, and imagines he has abundant grounds for them. For with most men judgment has to give way to inclination. It may occur that two may meet with exactly opposite views and yet each thinks to have reason on his side, yet reason is always true to itself and never has two faces. In such a diﬃculty a prudent man will go to work with care, for his decision of his opponent's view may cast doubt on his own. Place yourself in such a case in the other man's place and then investigate the reasons for his opinion. Y ou will not then condemn him or justify yourself in such a confusing way . ccxcv Do not affect what you have not effected. Many claim exploits without the slightest claim. 'With the greatest coolness they make a mystery of all. Chameleons of applause they aﬀord others a surfeit of laughter. V anity is always objectionable, here it is despicable. These ants of honour go crawling about ﬁlching scraps of exploits. The greater your exploits the less you need aﬀect them: content yourself with doing, leave the talking to others. Give away your deeds but do not sell them. And do not hire venal pens to write down praises in the mud, to the derision of the knowing ones. Aspire rather to be a hero than merely