give classes,teaching the new dance movements she would be in the process of creating. Itwould entail a tremendous risk, and money would be a constant problem, but herdesperation to create what she could imagine would fuel her past any obstacles.Within weeks of Ted Shawn’s ultimatum, she made her first move. Sherented out a studio, and to show her pupils that this was a new kind of dance theywere going to learn, she covered the walls in burlap. Unlike other dance studios,her studio would have no mirrors. The dancers would have to focus intensely on her studio would have no mirrors. The dancers would have to focus intensely onwhat she was teaching and learn how to correct themselves by feeling themovement in their bodies, not becoming fixated on their images. Everything shewanted in this new form of dance was outwardly directed at the audience,without self-consciousness.At first, it all seemed rather impossible. She had only a few students, justenough to cover rent. They would often have to wait for her as she slowlyinvented some new kind of movement or exercise, which they would thenpractice together and refine. A few early performances, although awkward,managed to attract more recruits, enough for Graham to think of creating a smalltroupe. From this group, she demanded the utmost discipline. They were creatinga new language and would have to work hard. Week by week she built up a setof exercises that would bring the dancers more control, along with an entirelynew mechanics of movement. She and her recruits would spend an entire yearworking on and perfecting one simple new technique, until it became secondnature.To distinguish her method from other forms of dance, she placed all of theemphasis on the torso. She called the torso “the house of the pelvic truth.” Shehad determined that the most expressive part of the human body came from thecontractions of the diaphragm and the sharp movements of the torso. This wouldbe the center of focus, not the face and arms that made dance too romantic. Shecreated endless exercises to build up this area, and she encouraged her dancers tofeel the deep well of emotions that came from using these muscles.Much of what stimulated her in this early phase was the desire to createsomething that had never been seen before on the stage. In Western dance, forinstance, it was taboo for a dancer to fall—that would be a sign of a mistake andloss of control. The ground was something to resist and never surrender to. Shedecided to turn this around by creating a new sequence of controlled falls inwhich the dancer would melt into the ground and reascend, ever so slowly. Thisrequired building up a whole new series of muscles. She took this conceptfurther, using the ground itself as a space upon which the dancer could move likea coiled snake. In her new system, suddenly the knee became a differentinstrument of expression—a hinge upon which the dancer could balance andmove, giving the effect of weightlessness.Slowly, as the work progressed, she could see coming to