shipping ofoil than it had had before this war. Rockefeller's method was to create relentless pressure from as manydirections as possible. The result was confusion on the part of the independentoil producers--they could not tell how far his control extended, but it seemedenormous. They still had options at the point when they surrendered, but theyhad been worn down and made to believe the fight was hopeless. The Tidewaterenvelopment was made possible by the immense resources at Rockefeller'sdisposal, but he used these resources not just practically but psychologically,generating an impression of himself as a relentless foe who would leave no gapsfor the enemy to sneak through. He won not only by how much he spent but byhis use of his resources to create psychological pressure.To envelop your enemies, you must use whatever you have in abundance. Ifyou have a large army, use it to create the appearance that your forces areeverywhere, an encircling pressure. That is how Toussaint l'Ouverture endedslavery in what today is called Haiti, at the end of the eighteenth century, andliberated the island from France: he used his greater numbers to create thefeeling among the whites on the island that they were hopelessly engulfed by ahostile force. No minority can withstand such a feeling for long.That night Ren Fu stationed the [Song army] troops by the Haoshui River,while Zhu Guan and Wu Ying made camp on a tributary of the river. Theywere about five li apart. Scouts reported that the Xia forces were inferior innumber and seemed rather fearful. At this Ren Fu lost his vigilance and grewcontemptuous of the men of Xia. He did not stop his officers and men frompursuing the Xia army and capturing its abandoned provisions. Geng Fureminded him that the men of Xia had always been deceptive and advised himto bring the troops under discipline and advance slowly in a regularformation. Scouts should also be dispatched to probe further into thesurrounding areas in order to find out what tricks the enemy was up to.However, Ren Fu ignored this advice. He made arrangements with Zhu Guanto proceed by separate routes to pursue the enemy and join forces at themouth of Haoshui River the next day. The Xia horsemen feigned defeat,emerging now and then four or five li in front of the Song army. Ren Fu andZhu Guan marched swiftly in a hot pursuit, eventually arriving to the north ofthe city of Longgan. There the Xia soldiers suddenly vanished from sight. RenFu realized at last that he had been deceived and decided to pull the troopsout of the mountainous region. The next day Ren Fu led his men to movewestward along the Haoshui River. They finally got out of the LiupanMountains and proceeded towards the city of Yangmulong. At this junctureRen Fu got reports of enemy activity in the vicinity. He had to call the troops to a halt about five li from the city and array them in a defensive formation.Just then, several large wooden boxes were discovered lying by the road. Theboxes were