us.--Friedrich Nietzsche (1844-1900)REVERSALThere can never be any value in fighting uneconomically, but it is always a wisecourse to make your opponent waste as much of his resources as possible. Thiscan be done through hit-and-run tactics, forcing him to expend energy chasingafter you. Lure him into thinking that one big offensive will ruin you; then bogthat offensive down in a protracted war in which he loses valuable time andresources. A frustrated opponent exhausting energy on punches he cannot landwill soon make mistakes and open himself up to a vicious counterattack. TURN THE TABLESTHE COUNTERATTACK STRATEGYMoving first--initiating the attack--will often put you at a disadvantage: you areexposing your strategy and limiting your options. Instead discover the power ofholding back and letting the other side move first, giving you the flexibility tocounterattack from any angle. If your opponents are aggressive, bait them into arash attack that will leave them in a weak position. Learn to use theirimpatience, their eagerness to get at you, as a way to throw them off balance andbring them down. In difficult moments do not despair or retreat: any situationcan be turned around. If you learn how to hold back, waiting for the rightmoment to launch an unexpected counterattack, weakness can become strength.The technique of "according with" the enemy's expectations and desiresrequires first determining what they believe and want, then apparentlyconforming to them until the situation can be exploited: Definition: When theenemy wants to take something and you yield it, it is termed "accordingwith."...In general, when going contrary to something merely solidifies it, it isbetter to accord with it in order to lead them to flaws. If the enemy wants toadvance, be completely flexible and display weakness in order to induce anadvance. If the enemy wants to withdraw, disperse and open an escape routefor their retreat. If the enemy is relying upon a strong front, establish yourown front lines far off, solidly assuming a defensive posture in order toobserve their arrogance. If the enemy relies upon their awesomeness, beemptily respectful but substantially plan while awaiting their laxness. Drawthem forward and cover them, release and capture them. Exploit theirarrogance, capitalize on their laxity.SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY MING DYNASTY TEXT, QUOTED IN THETAO OF SPYCRAFT, RALPH D. SAWYERDISGUISED AGGRESSIONIn September 1805, Napoleon Bonaparte faced the greatest crisis until thatmoment in his career: Austria and Russia had joined in an alliance against him. To the south, Austrian troops were attacking the French soldiers occupyingnorthern Italy; to the east, the Austrian general Karl Mack was leading a largeforce into Bavaria. A sizable Russian army under General Mikhail Kutusov wason its way to join Mack's army, and this allied force, once merged and expanded,would head for France. East of Vienna, more Russian and Austrian troops werewaiting to be deployed wherever needed. Napoleon's armies were outnumberedtwo to one.Napoleon's plan was to try to defeat each of the alliance's armies one by one,using his smaller but more mobile corps to fight them before they could joinforces. While committing enough troops to produce a stalemate in Italy, hemoved into Bavaria