monologue andpaying deep attention, you will pick up cues from them that will register withyou as feelings or sensations. Trust these sensations—they are telling yousomething that you will often tend to ignore because it is not easy to verbalize. something that you will often tend to ignore because it is not easy to verbalize.Later you can try to find a pattern to these signals and attempt to analyze whatthey mean.On this nonverbal level, it is interesting to observe how people behavearound those in positions of power and authority. They will tend to reveal ananxiety, a resentment, or a sycophantic falseness that betrays something essentialabout their psychological makeup, something that goes back to their childhoodsand that can be read in their body language.When you drop your defense mechanisms and pay deep attention to others,you will need to lower your guard and open yourself up to their influence aswell. But as long as your emotions and empathy are directed outward, you willbe able to detach yourself when necessary and analyze what you have gleaned.Resist the temptation to interpret what they say or do as somehow implicitlyinvolving you—this will cause you to turn your thoughts inward and close offthe immediacy of the connection.As an exercise, after you have known people for a while, try to imagine thatyou are experiencing the world from their point of view, placing yourself in theircircumstances and feeling what they feel. Look for any common emotionalexperiences—a trauma or difficulty you’ve had, for instance, that resembles insome way what they are going through. Reliving a part of that emotion can helpyou begin the identifying process. The goal is not to literally inhabit their mind,which is impossible, but to practice your empathic powers and gain a morerealistic appraisal of their worldview. Being able to place yourself to any degreein the mind-set of others is a brilliant means of loosening up your own thoughtprocess, which will tend to get locked into certain ways of seeing things. Yourability to empathize with others is related to the creative process of feeling yourway into the subject you are studying.This intuitive form of reading people becomes more effective and accuratethe more you use it, but it is best to combine it with other, more conscious formsof observation. For instance, you should take particular note of people’s actionsand decisions. Your goal is to figure out the hidden motives behind them, whichwill often revolve around power. People will say all kinds of things about theirmotives and intentions; they are used to dressing things up with words. Theiractions, however, say much more about their character, about what is going onunderneath the surface. If they present a harmless front but have actedaggressively on several occasions, give the knowledge of that aggression muchgreater weight than the surface they present. In a similar vein, you should takespecial note of how people respond to stressful situations—often the mask theywear in public falls off in the heat of the moment. When looking for cues to observe, you should be sensitive to any kind ofextreme