public--a crucial issue, for polarization is alwaysa goal of terrorism. Instead of trying to mount a dramatic counterstrike,Churchill and de Gaulle included the public in their strategic thinking and madethe citizenry active participants in the battle against these destructive forces. And it is this uncontrollable chain reaction effect of reversals that is the truepower of terrorism. This power is visible in the obvious and less obviousaftereffects of the event--not only in the economic and political recessionthroughout the system, and the psychological recession that comes out of that,but also in the recession in the value system, in the ideology of liberty, thefreedom of movement, etc., which was the pride of the Western world and thesource of its power over the rest of the world. It has reached a point wherethe idea of liberty, one that is relatively recent, is in the process ofdisappearing from our customs and consciences, and the globalization ofliberal values is about to realize itself in its exact opposite form: aglobalization of police forces, of total control, of a terror of securitymeasures. This reversal moves towards a maximum of restrictions, resemblingthose of a fundamentalist society.THE SPIRIT OF TERRORISM, JEAN BAUDRILLARD, 2002While working to halt the psychological damage from an attack, the leadermust do everything possible to thwart a further strike. Terrorists often worksporadically and with no pattern, partly because unpredictability is frightening,partly because they are often in fact too weak to mount a sustained effort. Timemust be taken to patiently uproot the terrorist threat. More valuable than militaryforce here is solid intelligence, infiltration of the enemy ranks (working to finddissidents from within), and slowly and steadily drying up the money andresources on which the terrorist depends.At the same time, it is important to occupy the moral high ground. As thevictim of the attack, you have the advantage here, but you may lose it if youcounterattack aggressively. The high ground is not a minor luxury but a criticalstrategic ploy: world opinion and alliances with other nations will prove crucialin isolating the terrorists and preventing them from sowing division. All thisrequires the willingness to wage the war over the course of many years, andmostly behind the scenes. Patient resolve and the refusal to overreact will serveas their own deterrents. Show you mean business and make your enemies feel it,not through the blustery front used for political purposes--this is not a sign ofstrength--but through the cool and calculating strategies you employ to cornerthem.In the end, in a world that is intimately interlinked and dependent on openborders, there will never be perfect security. The question is, how much threatare we willing to live with? Those who are strong can deal with a certainacceptable level of insecurity. Feelings of panic and hysteria reveal the degree towhich the enemy has triumphed, as does an overly rigid attempt at defense, in which a society and culture at large are made hostage to a handful of men. Authority: There is no fate worse than being continuously under guard,for it means you are always afraid.--Julius Caesar (100-44