the Yugoslav War (1999). His three kills in active duty are themost of any American pilot since the Vietnam War. Rodriguez commanded the332nd Expeditionary Operations Group during Operation Iraqi Freedom (2003).Rodriguez retired from the air force in 2006. He is a graduate of the U.S. AirForce Air Command and Staff College, and the U.S. Naval War College. Amonghis numerous medals, he has been awarded three Distinguished Flying Crosses,the Legion of Merit, and the Bronze Star. He is currently employed by Raytheonas the director of International Programs and Growth for their Air WarfareSystems Product line. ACKNOWLEDGMENTSFirst and foremost I would like to thank Anna Biller for all of her invaluablecontributions to this book—including her many insightful ideas, her skillfulediting, her help with the research, and her loving support throughout the longwriting process. Her work and assistance made this book possible, and I ameternally grateful.I would like to thank my agent, Michael Carlisle at Inkwell Management, fordeftly navigating this project past the occasional obstacles that came up, and forall of his editorial and life advice. He is truly the Master agent. Also at Inkwell,my thanks go to Lauren Smythe for all of her help, and to Alexis Hurley forbringing the book to a worldwide audience.I would like to thank Molly Stern for setting the whole project in motion, andall of those at Viking who played such an important role in the production of thebook. That would include my editor Josh Kendall, who helped and influencedthe project on so many levels; Carolyn Carlson, who took over the editorial reinsand worked her magic; Maggie Payette, who designed the cover; Daniel Lagin,who designed the layout; Noirin Lucas, who ably shepherded the book throughproduction; marketing director Nancy Sheppard and publicity director CarolynColeburn, who both did such a wonderful job in promoting the book; and last butnot least Margaret Riggs, who lent all of her logistical support. I must also thankClare Ferraro for her patience and her overall masterful direction of the project.I would like to thank Ryan Holiday, author of Trust Me I’m Lying:Confessions of a Media Manipulator (Penguin 2012), for his invaluableassistance on the research and for helping find and coordinate interviews withthe various contemporary Masters.Along the way, several people contributed with their advice and ideas. Firston the list would have to be 50 Cent. Our discussions back in 2007 planted theseed for this book. 50’s literary agent, Marc Gerald, played his usual midwiferole in the early stages. In this vein, I would also like to thank Casper Alexander,Keith Ferrazzi, and Neil Strauss; Professor William Ripple; Francisco Gimenez;my great friends Eliot Schain, Michiel Schwarz, and Joost Elffers; and KaterinaKantola, whose memory will live on forever. I would also like to thank my sisterLeslie for all of her inspiring ideas about animals and our Pleistocene ancestors.I am, of course, eternally grateful to the contemporary Masters who agreed tobe interviewed for this book. I had made it a condition that all interviews be be interviewed for this book. I had made it a condition that all interviews