control on surfaces that wereclearly too slick. The animals would bellow and stop in their tracks as they slidinto one another, causing a sudden pileup. At one feedlot, almost all of the cowswould stop at the same point; something in their visual field was obviouslyterrifying them. Didn’t anyone stop to consider what was causing this? Atanother feedlot, she witnessed the horrifying spectacle of cattle being herdedonto ramps leading to a dip vat—a pool of water full of disinfectant to help ridthem of ticks and parasites. The ramp was too steep and the drop into the watertoo great; some of the cattle would tumble upside down into the pool and drown.Based on what she had seen, she decided to do a detailed analysis of theefficiency of these feedlots, and how they could be improved, for her master’sthesis. She now visited dozens of these sites, and each time she would standclose to the chutes, recording the reactions of the cattle as they were branded andvaccinated. On her own, she would approach the cattle and touch them. Whenshe used to ride horses as a girl, she often could sense the mood of the horse justby the contact with her legs and hands. She began to experience the same withthe cattle, as she would press her hands on their sides and feel their relaxingresponse. She noticed that when she was calm, they would react to her in acalmer manner. Slowly, she was getting a sense of their perspective, and how somuch of their behavior was guided by perceived threats that we could notnecessarily notice.It soon became obvious to Grandin that in the animal sciences departmentshe was essentially alone in her interest in the emotions and experience ofanimals. Such subjects were considered beneath scientific interest. She persisted,however, in these lines of investigation—for her own sake and because she felt they had relevance to her thesis. She began to carry a camera with her on hertours of the feedlots. Knowing that cattle are very sensitive to any contrasts intheir visual field, she would follow the course of the animals through the variouschutes, kneeling and taking black-and-white photographs from their point ofview. Her camera would pick up all kinds of sharp contrasts in their field ofvision—bright reflections from the sun, sudden shadows, the glare from awindow. It was clear to her that seeing these sharp contrasts is what caused thecattle to stop repeatedly in their tracks. Sometimes the sight of a suspendedplastic bottle or a dangling chain would cause the same reaction—somehowthese things represented dangers to them.The instincts of these animals were obviously not designed for living in anindustrial feedlot, and this created a great strain. Whenever the animals wouldbecome instinctively frightened by something and react, the fieldworkers wouldgrow irritated and hurry them along, which only exacerbated the cattle’s fear.The number of injuries and deaths was rather appalling, and the time lost whenthey all piled up into gridlock was incredibly high; and yet, as she knew now,this was all quite easy to fix.After graduating, she got her