thechildren distrust the parent, whom they came to see not as a protector but as adomineering overlord exploiting them for its profit. The bond with Englandloosened, Adams's arguments for independence began to resonate. Now thecolonists began to look for their sense of identity not to Mother England but tothemselves.With the Stamp Act campaign, then, Adams discovered strategy, the bridgebetween his ideas and reality. His writings now aimed at stirring up anger. Thedemonstrations he organized--pure theater--were also designed to create andbuild anger among the middle and lower classes, key components of the futurerevolution. Adams's innovative use of boycotts was calibrated to infuriate theBritish and bait them into rash action. Their violent response contrastedbrilliantly with the relatively peaceful methods of the colonists, making themseem as tyrannical as he had said they were. Adams also worked to stirdissension among the English themselves, weakening the bond on all sides. TheStamp Act and Tea Act were actually rather trivial, but Adams strategicallymanipulated them to manufacture outrage, making them into wedges drivenbetween the two sides.Understand: rational arguments go in one ear and out the other. No one ischanged; you are preaching to the converted. In the war to win people's attentionand influence them, you must first separate them from whatever ties them to thepast and makes them resist change. You must realize that these ties are generallynot rational but emotional. By appealing to people's emotions, you can makeyour targets see the past in a new light, as something tyrannical, boring, ugly,immoral. Now you have room to infiltrate new ideas, shift people's vision, makethem respond to a new sense of their self-interest, and sow the seeds for a newcause, a new bond. To make people join you, separate them from their past. When you size up your targets, look for what connects them to the past, thesource of their resistance to the new.A joint is the weakest part of any structure. Break it and you divide peopleinternally, making them vulnerable to suggestion and change. Divide their mindsin order to conquer them.Make the enemy believe that support is lacking;...cut off, flank, turn, in athousand ways make his men believe themselves isolated. Isolate in likemanner his squadrons, battalions, brigades and divisions; and victory isyours.--Colonel Ardant du Picq (1821-1870)KEYS TO WARFAREThousands of years ago, our primitive ancestors were prone to feelings of greatweakness and vulnerability. To survive in the hostile environment of our earlyworld, animals had speed, teeth and claws, fur against winter cold, and otheradvantages of power and protection. Humans had none of this and must have feltterrifyingly exposed and alone. The only way to compensate for such weaknesswas to form groups.THE THREE OXEN AND THE LIONThere were three oxen who always grazed together. A lion had his designsupon them and wanted to eat them, but he could never get at one of thembecause they were always together. So he set them against each other withslanderous talk and managed to get them separated, whereupon they wereisolated and he was able to eat them one after the other. FABLES, AESOP,