Hannibal addressed his men. The contest hadbeen so enjoyable, he said, because the prisoners had fought so intensely. Thatwas partly because the weakest man grows fierce when losing means death, butthere was another reason as well: they had the chance to join the Carthaginianarmy, to go from being abject prisoners to free soldiers fighting for a great cause,the defeat of the hated Romans. You soldiers, said Hannibal, are in exactly thesame position. You face a much stronger enemy. You are many miles from home,on hostile territory, and you have nowhere to go--in a way you are prisoners, too.It is either freedom or slavery, victory or death. But fight as these men foughttoday and you will prevail.Four brave men who do not know each other will not dare to attack a lion.Four less brave, but knowing each other well, sure of their reliability andconsequently of mutual aid, will attack resolutely. There is the science of theorganization of armies in a nutshell.COLONEL CHARLES ARDANT DU PICQ, 1821-70The contest and speech got hold of Hannibal's soldiers, and the next day theyfought with deadly ferocity and defeated the Romans. A series of victoriesagainst much larger Roman legions followed.Nearly two years later, the two sides met at Cannae. Before the battle, withthe armies arrayed within sight of each other, the Carthaginians could see thatthey were hopelessly outnumbered, and fear passed through the ranks. Everyonewent quiet. A Carthaginian officer called Gisgo rode out in front of the men,taking in the Roman lines; stopping before Hannibal, he remarked, with a quaverin his voice, on the disparity in numbers. "There is one thing, Gisgo, that youhave not noticed," Hannibal replied: "In all that great number of men opposite,there is not a single one whose name is Gisgo." The Greeks met the Trojans without a tremor. Agamemnon ranged amongthem, commanding: "Be men, my friends. Fight with valor And with a senseof shame before your comrades. You're less likely to be killed with a sense ofshame. Running away never won glory or a fight." THE ILIAD, HOMER, CIRCA NINTH CENTURY B.C.Gisgo burst out laughing, so did those within hearing, and the joke passedthrough the ranks, breaking the tension. No, the Romans had no Gisgo. Only theCarthaginians had Gisgo, and only the Carthaginians had Hannibal. A leaderwho could joke at a moment like this had to feel supremely confident--and if theleader were Hannibal, that feeling was probably justified.Just as the troops had been swept with anxiety, now they were infected withself-assurance. At Cannae that day, in one of the most devastating victories inhistory, the Carthaginians crushed the Roman army.InterpretationHannibal was a master motivator of a rare kind. Where others would haranguetheir soldiers with speeches, he knew that to depend on words was to be in asorry state: words only hit the surface of a soldier, and a leader must grab hismen's hearts, make their blood boil, get into their minds, alter their moods.Hannibal reached his soldiers' emotions indirectly, by relaxing them, calmingthem, taking them outside their problems and getting them to