humans are conventional by nature. Once anyone succeeds at somethingwith a specific strategy or method, it is quickly adopted by others and becomeshardened into principle--often to everyone's detriment when it is appliedindiscriminately. This habit is a particular problem in war, for war is such riskybusiness that generals are often tempted to take the road well traveled. When somuch is necessarily unsafe, what has proven safe in the past has amplifiedappeal. And thus for centuries the rules have been that an army must have linesof communication and supply and, in battle, must assume a formation withflanks and a front. Napoleon loosened these principles, but their hold on militarythinkers remained so strong that during the American Civil War, some fortyyears after Napoleon's death, officers like Pemberton could not imagine an armybehaving according to any other plan. I have forced myself to contradict myself in order to avoid conforming to myown taste.MARCEL DUCHAMP, 1887-1968It took great courage for Grant to disobey these conventions and cut himselfloose from any base, living instead off the rich lands of the Mississippi Basin. Ittook great courage for him to move his army without forming a front. (Even hisown generals, including William Tecumseh Sherman, thought he had lost hismind.) This strategy was hidden from Pemberton's view because Grant kept upordinary appearances by establishing a base at Grand Gulf and forming front andrear to march toward the rail line. By the time Pemberton had grasped theextraordinary nature of Grant's free-flowing attack, he had been taken bysurprise and the game was over. To our eyes Grant's strategy might seemobvious, but it was completely outside Pemberton's experience.To follow convention, to give inordinate weight to what has worked in thepast, is a natural tendency. We often ignore some simple yet unconventional ideathat in every sense would upset our opponents. It is a matter sometimes ofcutting ourselves loose from the past and roaming freely. Going without asecurity blanket is dangerous and uncomfortable, but the power to startle peoplewith the unexpected is more than worth the risk. This is particularly importantwhen we are on the defensive or in a weakened state. Our natural tendency atsuch times is to be conservative, which only makes it easier for our enemies toanticipate our moves and crush us with their superior strength; we play into theirhands. It is when the tide is against us that we must forget the books, theprecedents, the conventional wisdom, and risk everything on the untried andunexpected. 4. The Ojibwa tribe of the North American plains contained a warrior societyknown as the Windigokan (No-flight Contraries). Only the bravest men, who haddemonstrated bravery by their utter disregard for danger on the battlefield, wereadmitted to the Windigokan. In fact, because they had no fear of death, theywere considered no longer among the living: they slept and ate separately andwere not held to the usual codes of behavior. As creatures who were alive butamong the dead, they spoke and acted contrarily: they called a young person anold man, and when one of them told the others to