ofstate. The only problemseemed tobemoney-——Basiliusnever had enough. Exposure tothesplendor ofByzantinecourt lifemade him avari- cious fortheperksofpower. Michael doubled, then tripledhissalary,en- nobled him, and married him offtohis own mistress, Eudoxia Ingerina. Keepingsuch atrusted friend and adviser satisfied was worthanyprice. But more trouble was tocome. Bardas was now head ofthearmy, and Basilius convinced Michael mat the man washopelesslyambitious. Under theillusion that hecould control hisnephew,Bardas hadconspired toput him onthethrone, and hecould conspire again,this time togetridof Michael and assume the crown himself. Basilius poured poisoninto Michael’s earuntil theemperor agreedtohave hisuncle murdered. During agreathorse race, Basilius closed inonBardas inthecrowd and stabbed him todeath. Soon after, Basilius asked that hereplace Bardas ashead of thearmy,where hecould keep control oftherealm andquell rebellion. This wasgranted. Now Basilius’s powerand wealth only grew, and afewyearslater Michael, infinancial straits from his own extravagance, asked him topay back some ofthemoneyhehad borrowed over theyears.ToMichael’s shock and astonishment, Basilius refused, with alook ofsuch impudenceTohave agood enemy, choose a/rierld.' He knows where tomike. DIANE DEPomrns, l499~»l566, Mismess or HENRI IIorFnawcr, Every mm:Ibestow a vacant ajffice:7make 52 hundred discontented persons and one ingraze. LOUIS XIV, 1638-1715 Thus formy own part Ihave more than omze been (leroived bythe person Iloved moss andofwhose love. above‘ everyoneelse Cr, Ihave been mostr:/on}? denr. SothatIbelieve that itmay be/viggiztto love arzd¥€efi‘/re one person above allothers, accordingtomerit and worth. but never to trust .\'0much in this tempting trapof/'n'eml- shipastohave cause to repent ofitlater an. BALDASSARF, CASTIGLIONE, 1*-178452‘) LAW 2 9 rt|'|Ha >.\,\|\l2 |‘lll-. \l{Mlxlt. »\\l)‘l‘Hl“ é€|<1R()\ /\make chased by Imnteris as/(ed afurrrwr Inlave ifslife. Tohide it from itspur.\'uer.\; the finmer .aqna£te(l amt lei (hrSnake crawl inn) his bellyBu! when the tlangttr hadpasxswl and the[unuer cwketl the snake tocoma out. zhe xnake rrfusml. Irwas warm and safiz inside. Onhisway harm», the /7um saw aheron and worn‘ up :0him and whispered what had huppemerl. Tim heron told him tomud: and smzin toeject the make. When thesnake snm;k itshead (ml, the heron caughl it.pulled it our, and killed it.The former wasworried that the makfs polxrzn Inighl will beinside him, and the heron told him (ha! the Lure forsnakz’ poison was tocook and eatsit white fowl.“You ‘re (1while fowl," .\'(Ii(l Yhafarmer. "You'll dofara start.”Hegrabbed the’heron. putitin at bag, h0and carried it me, where he hung2'!upwhile he told hiswife whal had happened. "I'm surprisedat you,"suit! thewife. "The hird timer youakimlrms‘. rizls youofthv evil inyour belly, .save.\‘ your Iliain fact, yet you (arch iftmcl talk ofkilling it." She immedi- ate!)Jreleaxetl thehenm, and itflew 3ul 0away. nits way, itgouged outher eyes. M0 7at‘; When you .\'(’(:' water /l0wing 1:phiIl,it m€u!’LS‘ thatthat theemperor suddenlyrealized hispredicament: The former stable boy had moremoney,more allies inthearmyand senate, and intheend more power than theemperor himself. Afew weeks later, after anightof heavy drinking, Michael awoke tofind himself surrounded bysoldiers. Basilius watched astheystabbed theemperortodeath. Then, after pro- claiming himself emperor,herode hishorse through the streets ofByzan- tium, brandishing thehead ofhisformer benefactor and best friend atthe endofalong pike. Interpretation Michael IIIstaked hisfuture onthe sense ofgratitude hethought Basilius must feel forhim. SurelyBasilius would serve him best; heowed the em- perorhiswealth, hiseducation, and