peculiar. Soonothers, too, were talking about Dali, discussing what he called his "paranoid-critical" method of painting: he delved deep into his dreams and unconscious andinterpreted the images he found there, no matter what their content, in deliriousdetail. Dali still lived in Spain, but Breton was suddenly seeing his nameeverywhere he went. Then, in November 1929, the twenty-five-year-old Dali hadhis first major show in a Paris gallery, and Breton was transfixed by the images.He wrote of the exhibition, "For the first time the windows of the mind hadopened wide."The late 1920s were a difficult period for Breton. The movement he hadfounded some five years earlier was stagnating, its members constantlybickering over ideological points that bored Breton to tears. In truth, surrealismwas on the verge of becoming passe. Perhaps Dali could offer the fresh blood itneeded: his art, his ideas, and his provocative character might make surrealismsomething people talked about again. With all this in mind, Breton invited Daliinto the movement, and the Spaniard happily accepted. Dali moved to Paris andestablished himself there.For the next few years, Breton's strategy seemed to be working. Dali'sscandalous paintings were the talk of Paris. His exhibitions caused riots.Suddenly everyone was interested in surrealism again, even younger artists. Butby 1933, Breton was beginning to rue his inclusion of Dali. He had begun to getletters from the Spaniard expressing great interest in Hitler as a source ofparanoiac inspiration. Only the surrealists, Dali felt, were capable of "sayingpretty things on the subject" of Hitler; he even wrote of sexually charged dreamsabout Hitler. As news of Dali's infatuation with the Fuhrer spread within themovement, it provoked a great deal of argument. Many surrealists hadcommunist sympathies and were disgusted by the Spanish artist's musings. Tomake matters worse, he included in one enormous painting an image of Lenin ina grotesque pose--exposing oversized buttocks (nine feet long), propped on acrutch. Many in the surrealist group admired Lenin; was Dali being deliberatelyprovocative? After Breton told Dali he disliked this rendition of the humanbuttocks and anus, a delirious profusion of anus images suddenly began topopulate the artist's paintings.Throughout his revolutionary and missionary travels, Hasan [leader of theNizari Ismailis] was searching for an impregnable fortress from which toconduct his resistance to the Seljuk empire. In about 1088, he finally chose the castle of Alamut, built on a narrow ridge on a high rock in the heart of theElburz Mountains in a region known as the Rudbar. The castle dominated anenclosed cultivated valley thirty miles long and three miles across at itswidest, approximately six thousand feet above sea level. Several villagesdotted the valley, and their inhabitants were particularly receptive to theascetic piety of Hasan. The castle was accessible only with the greatestdifficulty through a narrow gorge of the Alamut River.... Hasan employed acareful strategy to take over the castle, which had been granted to its currentShiite owner, named Mahdi, by the Seljuk sultan Malikshah. First, Hasan senthis trusted dai Husayn Qai-ni and two others to win converts in theneighboring villages. Next, many of the residents and soldiers