moods, suddenly turning furious over the most seemingly trivialevents. He was also a religious fanatic who believed in the literal truth of theBible; it was Darwin’s duty, FitzRoy told him, to find in South Americaevidence of the Flood and the creation of life as described in Genesis. Darwinfelt like a fool for going against his father, and his sense of loneliness wascrushing. How could he endure this cramped existence for months on end, livingin close quarters with a captain who seemed half-insane?A few weeks into the journey, feeling somewhat desperate, he decided upona strategy. Whenever he experienced such inner turmoil at home, what always a strategy. Whenever he experienced such inner turmoil at home, what alwayscalmed him down was to head outdoors and observe the life around him. In thatway he could forget himself. This now was his world. He would observe life onboard this ship, the characters of the various sailors and the captain himself, as ifhe were taking note of the markings of butterflies. For instance, he noticed thatno one grumbled about the food or the weather or the tasks at hand. They valuedstoicism. He would try to adopt such an attitude. It seemed that FitzRoy wasslightly insecure and needed constant validation about his authority and highposition within the navy. Darwin would supply that to no end. Slowly, he beganto fit into the daily scheme of life. He even picked up some of the mannerisms ofthe sailors. All of this distracted him from his loneliness.Several months later the Beagle arrived in Brazil, and now Darwinunderstood why he had wanted so badly to go on this voyage. He wascompletely mesmerized by the intense variety of the vegetation and wildlife—this was a naturalist’s paradise. It was not like anything he had observed orcollected in England. One day on a walk through a forest, he stood to the sideand witnessed the most bizarre and cruel spectacle he had ever seen: a march oftiny black ants, their columns over a hundred yards long, devouring every livingthing in their path. Everywhere he turned he saw some example of the fiercestruggle for survival in forests with overabundant life. In attending to his work,he quickly realized that he also faced a problem: All of the birds, the butterflies,the crabs, and the spiders he caught were so unusual. Part of his job was tochoose judiciously what to send back, but how could he possibly distinguishwhat was worth collecting?He would have to expand his knowledge. Not only would he have to spendendless hours studying everything in his sight on his walks, and take copiousnotes, but he would have to find a way to organize all of this information,catalog all of these specimens, bring some order to his observations. It would bea herculean task, but unlike schoolwork, it excited him. These were livingcreatures, not vague notions in books.As the ship headed south along the coast, Darwin realized that there wereinterior parts of South America that no naturalist had yet explored. Determinedto see every form of life that he