sort. Ourconventional tendency is to look for a single cause or a simple explanation,which then reveals to us how to fix the problem. If the book we are creating isnot working out, we focus on the uninspired writing or the misguided conceptbehind it. Or if the company we work for is not performing well, we look at theproducts we are designing and marketing. Although we think we are beingrational when we think in this way, most often problems are more complicatedand holistic; we are simplifying them, based on the law that the mind alwayslooks for shorthands.To look at the “how” instead of the “what” means focusing on the structure—how the parts relate to the whole. With the book, it may not be working outbecause it is organized poorly, the faulty organization a reflection of ideas thathave not been thought out. Our minds are a jumble, and this is reflected in thework. Thinking in this way, we are forced to go more deeply into the parts andhow they relate to the overall concept; improving the structure will improve thewriting. With the company, we should look deeply at the organization itself—how well people communicate with one another, how quickly and fluidlyinformation is passed along. If people are not communicating, if they are not onthe same page, no amount of changes in the product or marketing will improveperformance.Everything in nature has a structure, a way that the parts relate to oneanother, which is generally fluid and not so easy to conceptualize. Our mindsnaturally tend to separate things out, to think in terms of nouns instead of verbs.In general you want to pay greater attention to the relationships between things,because that will give you a greater feel for the picture as a whole. It was in because that will give you a greater feel for the picture as a whole. It was inlooking at the relationship between electricity and magnetism and the relativityof their effects that scientists created a whole revolution in scientific thinking,leading from Michael Faraday to Albert Einstein and the elaboration of fieldtheories. This is a revolution that is waiting to happen on a more mundane level,in our everyday thinking.Rushing to generalities and ignoring details:Our minds are always hurrying to generalize about things, often based on themost minimal amounts of information. We form opinions quickly, in conformitywith our previous opinions, and we do not pay great attention to the details. Tocombat this pattern we must sometimes shift our focus from the macro to themicro—placing much greater emphasis on the details, the small picture. WhenDarwin wanted to make sure his theory was accurate, he devoted eight longyears of his life to the exclusive study of barnacles. Looking at this intenselymicroscopic glimpse of nature, he saw a perfect corroboration of his largertheory.When Leonardo da Vinci wanted to create a whole new style of painting, onethat was more lifelike and emotional, he engaged in an obsessive study ofdetails. He spent endless hours experimenting with forms of light hitting variousgeometrical solids, to test how light could