themselves. Once the enemy was on its heels, a deceptive maneuver--headingone way, then attacking from another--had double the effect. An enemy that is inretreat and without time to think will make endless mistakes if you keep up thepressure. Ultimately, the key to Rommel's success was to seize the initiative withone bold maneuver, then exploit this momentary advantage to the fullest.Everything in this world conspires to put you on the defensive. At work,your superiors may want the glory for themselves and will discourage you fromtaking the initiative. People are constantly pushing and attacking you, keepingyou in react mode. You are continually reminded of your limitations and whatyou cannot hope to accomplish. You are made to feel guilty for this and that.Such defensiveness on your part can become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Beforeanything, you need to liberate yourself from this feeling. By acting boldly, beforeothers are ready, by moving to seize the initiative, you create your owncircumstances rather than simply waiting for what life brings you. Your initialpush alters the situation, on your terms. People are made to react to you, makingyou seem larger and more powerful than may be the case. The respect and fearyou inspire will translate into offensive power, a reputation that precedes you.Like Rommel, you must also have a touch of madness: ready to disorient andconfuse for its own sake, to keep advancing no matter the circumstance. It is upto you--be constantly defensive or make others feel it instead.When they came to the ford of Xanthus, The eddying river that Zeus begot,Achilles split the Trojans. Half he chased Toward the city, across the plainwhere yesterday The Greeks had fled from Hector's shining rage. Hera, toslow this stampede of Trojans, Spread a curtain of fog between them.The others swerved--And found themselves herded into the river. Theycrashed down into the deep, silver water As it tumbled and roared through itsbanks. You could hear their screams as they floundered And were whirledaround in the eddies.Fire will sometimes cause a swarm of locusts To rise in the air and fly to ariver. The fire Keeps coming, burning them instantly,And the insects shrink down into the water.Just so Achilles. And Xanthus' noisy channel Was clogged with chariots, horses, and men. Achilles wasted no time. Leaving his spear Propped againsta tamarisk And holding only his sword, he leapt from the bank Like a spiritfrom hell bent on slaughter. He struck over and over, in a widening spiral.2. In 1932, Paramount Pictures, following a craze for gangster films, beganproduction on Night After Night. The film was to star George Raft, who hadrecently made a name for himself in Scarface. Raft was cast to type as a typicalgangster. But Night After Night, in a twist, was to have a comic edge to it. Theproducer, William Le Baron, was afraid that there was no one in the cast whohad a light enough touch to pull this off. Raft, hearing of his concern, suggestedhe hire Mae West.West was a celebrity in vaudeville and on Broadway, starring in plays shehad