unrelated fields. He was not a promising student, and had notattracted the attention of any important professor or mentor. He quicklydeveloped a disdain for academia and the constrictions it placed on his thinking. developed a disdain for academia and the constrictions it placed on his thinking.Still deeply troubled by his thought experiment, he continued to work on it onhis own. He spent months devising an experiment that could perhaps allow himto detect the ether and its effects on light, but a professor at the Polytechnicrevealed to him that his experiment was unworkable. He gave Einstein a paperdescribing all of the failed attempts to detect ether that had been attempted byeminent scientists, perhaps trying to deflate the pretensions of a twenty-year-oldstudent who thought he could uncover what the greatest scientists in the worldhad failed to accomplish.A year later, in 1900, Einstein came to a life-changing decision abouthimself: He was not an experimental scientist. He was not good at devisingexperiments and he did not enjoy the process. He had several strengths—he wasa marvel at solving abstract puzzles of any kind; he could turn them over in hismind, converting them into images he could manipulate and shape at will. Andbecause of his natural disdain of authority and conventions, he could think inways that were novel and flexible. This meant of course that he would neversucceed in the slippery world of academia. He would have to blaze his own path,but this could be an advantage. He would not be burdened by the need to fit in oradhere to the standard paradigm.Continuing to work on his thought experiment day and night, he finally cameto a conclusion—something had to be wrong with the entire notion of thephysical universe as described by Newton. Scientists were going at the problemfrom the wrong end: they were straining to prove the existence of the ether inorder to maintain the Newtonian edifice. Although Einstein admired Newton, hehad no ties to any school of thought. Considering his decision to work on hisown, he could be as daring as he liked. He would throw out the idea of the etheritself and all of the absolutes that could not be verified. His way forward wouldbe to deduce the laws, the principles that governed motion, through his reasoningpowers and through mathematics. He did not need a university position or anylaboratory to do this. Wherever he found himself, he could work on theseproblems.As the years went by, it would seem to others that Einstein was a bit of afailure. He had graduated from the Polytechnic close to the bottom of his class.He could not find any kind of teaching job and had settled for a mediocre, low-paid position as an evaluator of inventions for the Swiss patent office in Bern.But free to continue on his own, he worked with unbelievable tenacity at this oneproblem. Even while apparently on the job at the patent office, he would focusfor hours on the theory that was forming in his mind; even when out for a walkwith friends, he would