of his ideas had been pent up for too long, heexploded in a creative outburst unprecedented in the history of music.The apprenticeship of the past twenty years had prepared him well for thismoment. He had developed a prodigious memory—in his mind he could holdtogether all of the harmonies and melodies that he had absorbed over the years.Instead of notes or chords, he could think in terms of blocks of music and writethem out as quickly as he heard them in his head. His speed of composing wouldnow astonish those who witnessed it. For instance, the night before the premierein Prague of the opera Don Giovanni, Mozart had gone out drinking. When hisfriends reminded him that he had not yet written the overture, he hurried home,and while his wife kept him awake by singing to him, he wrote one of his mostpopular and brilliantly conceived overtures in a matter of hours.More important, the years he had spent learning how to compose in everyconceivable genre now allowed him to use these genres to express somethingnew, to stretch their boundaries and even permanently transform them throughhis creative powers. Feeling turmoil within himself, he searched for a way tomake music something powerful and expressive, and not merely decorative.In his time, the piano concerto and symphony had become rather light andfrivolous genres, with short, simple movements, small orchestras, and anoverabundance of melody. Mozart completely reworked these forms fromwithin. He wrote for larger orchestras, expanding in particular the violinsections. Such orchestras could produce a more powerful sound than hadpreviously been known. He expanded the length of his symphonic movementswell beyond convention. In his opening movement, he would establish a mood of tension and dissonance that he would proceed to build up in the slow secondmovement, and which he would resolve in a grand and dramatic resolution at thefinale. He gave his compositions the power to express dread, sadness,foreboding, anger, exhilaration, and ecstasy. Audiences were spellbound by thisnew sweeping sound that suddenly had so many new dimensions. After theseinnovations, it became almost impossible for composers to return to the light,frothy court music that had previously prevailed. European music had foreverbeen altered.These innovations did not spring from any conscious desire on his part toprovoke or rebel. Rather, his transforming spirit emerged as if it were completelynatural and beyond his control, like a bee secreting wax. Aided by his superiorsense of music, he simply could not help but personalize every genre he workedin.In 1786 he came upon a version of the Don Juan legend that excited him. Heimmediately identified with the story of the great seducer. He shared Don Juan’sobsessive need and love for women, and he had the same disdain for authorityfigures. But more important, Mozart felt that as a composer he had the supremeability to seduce audiences and that music itself represented the ultimateseduction, with its irresistible power to strike at our emotions. Translating thisstory into an opera, he could convey all of these ideas. And so the following yearhe began early work on his opera Don