discover the same whitish pus that smelled horrifically,and an unusual amount of putrid flesh. Seeing the effects of the disease onalmost a daily basis, Semmelweis could think of nothing else. He would devotehis time to solving the riddle of its origins.At the time, the most common explanation for the cause of the diseaserevolved around the idea that airborne particles, ingested through the lungs,brought on the fever. But to Semmelweis, this made no sense. The epidemics ofchildbed fever did not seem to depend on weather, atmospheric conditions, oranything in the air. He noted, as did a few others, that the incidence was muchhigher among women who had had their babies delivered by a doctor as opposed higher among women who had had their babies delivered by a doctor as opposedto a midwife. Nobody could explain the reason for such a difference, and fewseemed perturbed by this.After much thinking and studying of the literature on the subject,Semmelweis came to the startling conclusion that it was the direct, hand-to-handcontact between doctor and patient that caused the disease—a revolutionaryconcept at the time. As he was formulating this theory, an event occurred thatseemed to prove it conclusively: A leading doctor in the department had beenaccidently pricked in the finger by a knife while conducting an autopsy on awoman who had had childbed fever, and the doctor died within a few days of amassive infection. When they dissected his body, he had the same white pus andputrid flesh as the woman.It now seemed clear to Semmelweis that in the autopsy room the physicians’hands became infected, and in examining the women and delivering the babies,they passed the disease into the women’s blood through various open wounds.The physicians were literally poisoning their patients with childbed fever. If thiswas the cause, it would be simple to solve—doctors would have to wash anddisinfect their hands before handling any patients, a practice no one followed inany hospital at the time. He instituted this practice in his ward, and the numberof mortalities was instantly halved.On the brink of perhaps a major discovery in science—the connectionbetween germs and contagious disease—Semmelweis seemed to be on his wayto an illustrious career. But there was one problem. The head of the department,Johann Klein, was a most conservative gentleman who wanted his doctors toadhere to strict medical orthodoxies established by previous practice. Hebelieved that Semmelweis was an inexperienced doctor turned radical, whowanted to overturn the establishment and make a name for himself in theprocess.Semmelweis argued with him incessantly over the subject of childbed fever,and when the young man finally promulgated his theory, Klein became furious.The implication was that doctors, including Klein himself, had been murderingtheir patients, and this was too much to take. (Klein himself ascribed the lowernumber of mortalities in Semmelweis’s ward to a new ventilation system he hadinstalled.) When in 1849 Semmelweis’s assistantship was nearing its end, Kleinrefused to renew it, essentially leaving the young man without a job.By now, however, Semmelweis had gained several key allies within themedical department, particularly among the younger set.