the candour of the dove. Nothing is easier than to deceive an honest man. He believes in much who lies in naught; who does no deceit, has much conﬁdence. To be deceived is not always due to stupidity , it may arise from sheer goodness. There are two sets of men who can guard themselves from injury: those who have experienced it at their own cost, and those who have observed it at the cost of others. Prudence should use as much suspicion as subtlety uses snares, and none need be so good as to enable others to do him ill. Combine in yourself the dove and the serpent, not as a monster but as a prodigy . ccxliv Create a feeling of Obligation. Some transform favours received into favours bestowed, and seem, or let it be thought, that they are doing a favour when receiving one. There are some so astute that they get honour by asking, and buy their own advantage with applause from others. They manage matters so cleverly that they seem to be doing others a service when receiving one from them. They transpose the order of obligation with extraordinary skill, or at least render it doubtful who has obliged whom. They buy the best by praising it, and make a ﬂattering honour out of the pleasure they express. They oblige by their courtesy , and thus make men beholden for what they themselves should be beholden. In this way they conjugate "to oblige" in the active instead of in the passive voice, thereby proving themselves better politicians than grammarians. This is a subtle piece of ﬁnesse; a still greater is to perceive it, and to retaliate on such fools' bargains by paying in their own coin, and so coming by your own again. ccxlv Original and out-of-the-way Views are signs of superior ability . W e do not think much of a man who never contradicts us that is no sign he loves us, but rather that he loves himself. Do not be deceived by ﬂattery , and thereby have to pay for it: rather condemn it. Besides you may take credit for being censured by some, especially if they are those of whom the good speak ill. On the contrary , it should disturb us if our aﬀairs please every one, for that is a sign that they are of little worth. Perfection is for the few . ccxlvi Never offer Satisfaction unless it is demanded. And if they do demand it, it is a kind of crime to give more than necessary . To excuse oneself before there is occasion is to accuse oneself. To draw blood in full health gives the hint to ill-will. An excuse unexpected arouses suspicion from its slumbers. Nor need a shrewd person show himself aware of another's suspicion, which is equivalent to seeking out oﬀence. He had best disarm distrust by the integrity of his conduct. ccxlvii Know a little more, live a little less. Some say