years later our most recent ancestor, Homo erectus. And just 200,000years ago the anatomically modern human emerged, with more or less the samebrain size that we now possess.In this remarkably complex chain of circumstances, we can identify, atcertain turning points, a single ancestor from whom we humans have evolved(the first cells, simple animals, mammals, then primates). Some archeologistshave speculated about a single female ancestor from whom all modern humans have speculated about a single female ancestor from whom all modern humanshave descended. Moving up the chain, backwards in time, it is clear that who weare today—our particular physiological makeup—is intimately connected toeach one of these original ancestors, as far back as the first cells of life. Since alllife forms are descended from this common beginning, they are allinterconnected in some way, and we humans are intimately implicated in thisnetwork. This is undeniable.Let us call this interrelatedness of life the ultimate reality. And in relation tothis reality, the human mind tends to go in one of two directions. On the onehand, the mind tends to move away from this interconnectedness and focusinstead on the distinctions between things, taking objects out of their contextsand analyzing them as separate entities. At the extreme this tendency leads tohighly specialized forms of knowledge. In the world today, we can see manysigns of this tendency—the microscopic divisions between fields in ouruniversities, the narrowest of specializations in the sciences. In the culture atlarge, people will make the finest distinctions between closely related oroverlapping subjects, and argue endlessly about the differences. They willdistinguish between military and civilian society, even though in a democracysuch a distinction is not so easy to make. (Perhaps keeping people and fields ofstudy so rigorously separated can be considered the ultimate ploy of those inpower, a version of divide and conquer.) At this level of thinking, a sense of theinterrelatedness of life and phenomena is lost, and in becoming so specializedideas can become quite weird and disconnected from reality.On the other hand, there is the opposing tendency of the brain to want tomake connections between everything. This generally occurs among individualswho pursue knowledge far enough that these associations come to life. Althoughthis tendency is easier to spot in Masters, we can see in history certainmovements and philosophies in which this return to reality becomes widespreadin a culture, part of the zeitgeist. For instance, in the ancient world there wasTaoism in the East, and Stoicism in the West, both movements that endured forcenturies. In Taoism, there is the concept of the Way, and in Stoicism, that of theLogos—the ordering principle of the universe that connects all living things. AsMarcus Aurelius expresses it, “Keep reminding yourself of the way things areconnected, of their relatedness. All things are implicated in one another and insympathy with each other. This event is the consequence of some other one.Things push and pull on each other, and breathe together, and are one.”Perhaps the greatest example of this was the Renaissance, a culturalmovement for which the ideal was the Universal Man—a person