interior they try so hard to hide. Their guardwill come down with a friend. And even later on, when you play out yourtreacherous intentions, the lingering resonance of your friendship will stillconfuse them, letting you keep on manipulating them by toying with their emotions or pushing them into overreactions. For a more immediate effect, youcan try a sudden act of kindness and generosity that gets people to lower theirdefenses--the Trojan Horse strategy. (For ten long years, the Greeks battered thewalls of Troy to no effect; the simple gift of a wooden horse let them sneak afew men into Troy and open the gates from within.)The lotus strategy is widely applicable. When confronted by somethingdifficult or thorny, do not be distracted or discouraged by its formidable outerappearance; think your way into the soft core, the center from which the problemblossoms. Perhaps the source of your problem is a particular person; perhaps it isyourself and your own stale ideas; perhaps it is the dysfunctional organization ofa group. Knowing the problem's core gives you great power to change it fromthe inside out. Your first thought must always be to infiltrate to the center--whether in thought or in action--never to whale away at the periphery or justpound at the walls.If there is someone on the inside whom you need to get rid of or thwart, thenatural tendency is to consider conspiring with others in your group who feel thesame way. In most conspiracies the goal is some large-scale action to topple theleader and seize power. The stakes are high, which is why conspiracies are sooften difficult and dangerous. The main weakness in any conspiracy is usuallyhuman nature: the higher the number of people who are in on the plot, the higherthe odds that someone will reveal it, whether deliberately or accidentally. AsBenjamin Franklin said, "Three may keep a secret if two of them are dead." Nomatter how confident you may be of your fellow conspirators, you cannot knowfor certain what is going on in their minds--the doubts they may be having, thepeople they may be talking to.A prince need trouble little about conspiracies when the people are welldisposed, but when they are hostile and hold him in hatred, then he must feareverything and everybody.NICCOLO MACHIAVELLI, 1469-1527There are a few precautions you can take. Keep the number of conspiratorsas small as possible. Involve them in the details of the plot only as necessary; theless they know, the less they have to blab. Revealing the schedule of your plan aslate as possible before you all act will give them no time to back out. Then, oncethe plan is described, stick to it. Nothing sows more doubts in conspirators'minds than last-minute changes. Even given all this insurance, keep in mind thatmost conspiracies fail and, in their failure, create all kinds of unintendedconsequences. Even the successful plot to assassinate Julius Caesar led not to the restoration of the Roman Republic, as the conspirators intended, but eventuallyto the undemocratic regime of the emperor Augustus. Too few conspirators andyou lack