out, when in truth theysimply cannot handle the challenges of engaging with complexity. In trying tosimplify their mental lives, they disconnect themselves from reality andneutralize all of the powers developed by the human brain over so many millionsof years.This desire for what is simple and easy infects all of us, often in ways we aremostly unaware of. The only solution is the following: We must learn how toquiet the anxiety we feel whenever we are confronted with anything that seemscomplex or chaotic. In our journey from apprenticeship to mastery we mustpatiently learn the various parts and skills that are required, never looking too farahead. In moments of perceived crisis, we must develop the habit of maintainingour cool and never overreacting. If the situation is complex and others arereaching for simple black-and-white answers, or for the usual conventionalresponses, we must make a point of resisting such a temptation. We maintain ourNegative Capability and a degree of detachment. What we are doing is gaining atolerance and even a taste for chaotic moments, training ourselves to entertainseveral possibilities or solutions. We are learning to manage our anxiety, a keyskill in these chaotic times. skill in these chaotic times.To go along with this self-control, we must do whatever we can to cultivate agreater memory capacity—one of the most important skills in ourtechnologically oriented environment. The problem that technology presents usis that it increases the amount of information at our disposal, but slowly degradesthe power of our memory to retain it. Tasks that used to exercise the brain—remembering phone numbers, doing simple calculations, navigating andremembering streets in a city—are now performed for us, and like any musclethe brain can grow flabby from disuse. To counteract this, in our spare time weshould not simply look for entertainment and distractions. We should take uphobbies—a game, a musical instrument, a foreign language—that bring pleasurebut also offer us the chance to strengthen our memory capacities and theflexibility of our brain. In doing so, we can train ourselves to process largeamounts of information without feeling anxious or overtaxed.Faithfully pursuing this course over enough time, we will eventually berewarded with intuitive powers. That whole living, breathing, changing beastthat is our field will become internalized and live within us. Possessing even apart of such power will instantly separate us from all of the others who findthemselves overwhelmed and straining to simplify what is inherently complex.We will be able to respond faster and more effectively than others. What seemedchaotic to us before will now seem to be simply a fluid situation with a particulardynamic that we have a feel for and can handle with relative ease.What is interesting to note is that many Masters who come to possess thishigh-level intuitive power seem to become younger in mind and spirit with thepassing years—something that should be encouraging to us all. They do not needto expend a great deal of energy in order to understand phenomena, and canthink creatively with increasing speed. Unless debilitated by disease, they canmaintain their spontaneity and mental fluidity well into