out one and he will have to depend more onthe others; knock out those and he is lost. Weaken a boxer's legs and he will reeland stagger, and when he does, be merciless. No power can stand without itslegs.When the vanes are removed from an arrow, even though the shaft and tipremain it is difficult for the arrow to penetrate deeply.--Ming dynasty strategist Chieh Hsuan (early seventeenth century A.D.)KEYS TO WARFAREIt is natural in war to focus on the physical aspect of conflict--bodies, equipment, materiel. Even an enlightened strategist will tend to look first at the enemy'sarmy, firepower, mobility, reserves. War is a visceral, emotional affair, an arenaof physical danger, and it takes great effort to rise above this level and askdifferent questions: What makes the enemy army move? What gives it impetusand endurance? Who guides its actions? What is the underlying source of itsstrength?The people of Israel cried out to the Lord their God, for their courage failed,because all their enemies had surrounded them and there was no way ofescape from them. The whole Assyrian army, their infantry, chariots, andcavalry, surrounded them for thirty-four days, until all the vessels of waterbelonging to every inhabitant of Bethulia were empty.... Their children lostheart, and the women and young men fainted from thirst and fell down in thestreets of the city and in the passages through the gates; there was no strengthleft in them any longer.... When Judith had ceased crying out to the God ofIsrael, and had ended all these words, she rose from where she lay prostrateand called her maid and went down into the house where she lived onsabbaths and on her feast days; and she removed the sackcloth which she hadbeen wearing, and took off her widow's garments, and bathed her body withwater, and anointed herself with precious ointment, and combed her hair andput on a tiara, and arrayed herself in her gayest apparel, which she used towear while her husband Manasseh was living. And she put sandals on herfeet, and put on her anklets and bracelets and rings, and her earrings and allher ornaments, and made herself very beautiful, to entice the eyes of all menwho might see her....... The women went straight on through the valley; andan Assyrian patrol met her and took her into custody, and asked her, "To whatpeople do you belong, and where are you going?" She replied, "I am adaughter of the Hebrews, but I am fleeing from them, for they are about to behanded over to you to be devoured. I am on my way to the presence ofHolofernes the commander of your army, to give him a true report; and I willshow him a way by which he can go and capture all the hill country withoutlosing one of his men, captured or slain." When the man heard her words,and observed her face--she was in their eyes marvelously beautiful--they saidto her "...Go at once to his tent.... And when you stand before him, do not beafraid in your heart, but