tightly sealed and rustling sound came from within. Curiously,Ren Fu ordered the boxes to be opened. All of a sudden, dozens of pigeonsfluttered out of the boxes and flew high into the sky, with loud tinkling soundscoming from the small bells attached to their claws. All the Song soldierslooked up in astonishment, when large hosts of Xia soldiers appeared in everydirection to form a complete encirclement. On hearing the pigeon bells,Yuanhao knew that the Song army had entered his ambush ring. Thereupon hesent an assistant general with fifty thousand men to surround and assault theband of troops led by Zhu Guan and led the other half of his troops in personto attack Ren Fu, whom he considered a tougher opponent than Zhu Guan....The Song soldiers failed to penetrate the encirclement and were compelled tocontinue the tangled fight. Many were killed and some even threw themselvesdown the precipice in despair. Ren Fu himself was hit by over a dozen arrows.One of his guards urged him to surrender, which seemed the only way to savehis life and the remnants of his men. But Ren Fu sighed and said, "I am ageneral of the Song and shall pay for this defeat with my life." With this hebrandished his mace and fought fiercely until he was mortally injured on theface by a spear. Then he took his own life by strangling himself. All of RenFu's subordinate officers died in combat, and his army was completely wipedout.THE WILES OF WAR: 36 MILITARY STRATEGIES FROM ANCIENTCHINA, TRANSLATED BY SUN HAICHEN, 1991Remember: the power of envelopment is ultimately psychological. Makingthe other side feel vulnerable to attack on many sides is as good as envelopingthem physically.In the Ismaili Shiite sect during the eleventh and twelfth centuries A.D., agroup later known as the Assassins developed the strategy of killing key Islamicleaders who had tried to persecute the sect. Their method was to infiltrate anAssassin into the target's inner circle, perhaps even joining his bodyguard.Patient and efficient, the Assassins were able over the years to instill the fear thatthey could strike at any time and at any person. No caliph or vizier felt secure.The technique was a masterpiece of economy, for in the end the Assassinsactually killed quite a few people, yet the threat they posed gave the Ismailisgreat political power.A few well-timed blows to make your enemies feel vulnerable in multipleways and from multiple directions will do the same thing for you. Often, in fact, less is more here: too many blows will give you a shape, a personality--something for the other side to respond to and develop a strategy to combat.Instead seem vaporous. Make your maneuvers impossible to anticipate. Yourpsychological encirclement will be all the more sinister and complete.The best encirclements are those that prey on the enemy's preexisting,inherent vulnerabilities. Be attentive, then, to signs of arrogance, rashness, orother psychological weakness. Once Winston Churchill saw the paranoid streakin Adolf Hitler, he worked to create the impression that the Axis might beattacked from anywhere--the Balkans, Italy, western France. Churchill'sresources