was it?In 1962, Crawford and Bette Davis, longtime stars who had never appearedin the same movie, were finally to costar, in Robert Aldrich's film What EverHappened to Baby Jane? Crawford and Davis had never been thought to likeeach other too much, but Crawford had encouraged the pairing--as goodpublicity, it would help to extend their careers. Once again their behavior wascivil on set, but after the film came out, it was Davis, not Crawford, who wasnominated for a Best Actress Oscar. Worse, she immediately started crowingabout it, proudly announcing that she would be the first actress to win threeOscars. Crawford had only one.Davis was the center of attention at the Oscars. Backstage before the event,she was unusually gracious to Crawford--after all, she could afford to be; thiswas her night. (Only three other actresses were nominated, and everyoneexpected Davis to get it.) Crawford was equally polite. During the ceremony,however, as Davis stood in the wings, waiting, she hoped, to accept the award,she got a shock: she lost. Anne Bancroft won for her role in The Miracle Worker.And there was more: as Davis stood taking it in, she felt a hand on her arm."Excuse me," said Crawford, and she strode past the stunned Davis to accept theaward on Bancroft's behalf. (The Oscar winner could not be there that night.) Onwhat was supposed to be Davis's night of glory, Crawford had somehow stolenthe limelight, an unbearable affront.InterpretationA Hollywood actress has to be thick-skinned, and Joan Crawford was thequintessence of the Hollywood actress: she had a huge capacity to absorb anddeal with insults and disrespect. Whenever she could, though, she plotted to getthe last laugh on her various nemeses, leaving them humiliated. Crawford knewthat people thought of her as somewhat of a bitch, a tough, even unpleasantwoman. She felt this was unfair--she had been kind to many--but she could livewith it. What annoyed her was how Shearer got away with playing the elegantlady when in fact, Crawford believed, she was a nasty specimen beneath hercharming exterior. So Crawford maneuvered to get Shearer to expose a side ofherself that few had seen. Just that glimmer was memorable to the Hollywoodcommunity and humiliating to Shearer.With Davis it was all in the timing: Crawford ruined her night of glory(which she had been gloating about for months) without even saying a mean word. Crawford knew that Bancroft would be unable to attend and learned frominside information that she would win, so she happily volunteered to accept theprize on her behalf.Inevitably a patient entering analysis begins to use ploys which have placedhim one-up in previous relationships (this is called a "neurotic pattern"). Theanalyst learns to devastate these maneuvers of the patient. A simple way, forexample, is to respond inappropriately to what the patient says. This placesthe patient in doubt about everything he has learned in relationships withother people. The patient may say, "Everyone should be truthful," hoping toget the analyst to agree with him and thereby follow his lead. He who followsanother lead is one-down. The analyst may reply with