and even turn to them foradvice. You must be careful not to boast of any success, and if necessary, toascribe it to just good luck on your part. It is always wise to occasionally revealyour own insecurities, which will humanize you in other people’s eyes. Self-deprecating humor will work wonders as well. You must be particularly carefulto never make people feel stupid in your presence. Intelligence is the mostsensitive trigger point for envy. In general, it is by standing out too much thatyou will spark this ugly emotion, and so it is best to maintain a nonthreateningexterior and to blend in well with the group, at least until you are so successful itno longer matters.Conformism: When people form groups of any type, a kind oforganizational mind-set inevitably sets in. Although members of the group mighttrumpet their tolerance and celebration of people’s differences, the reality is thatthose who are markedly different make them feel uncomfortable and insecure,calling the values of the dominant culture into question. This culture will haveunwritten standards of correctness that shift with the times we live in. In someenvironments, physical appearance is important. But generally, the spirit ofcorrectness runs deeper than that. Often unconsciously conforming to the spiritof the man or woman on top, members will share the same values about moralsor politics. You can become aware of this group spirit by observing how muchpeople feel the need to display certain opinions or ideas that conform to thestandards. There will always be a few within the group who are the overseers ofcorrectness and who can be quite dangerous.If you have a rebellious or naturally eccentric streak, as is often the case withthose who are aiming for mastery, you must be careful in displaying yourdifference too overtly, particularly in the Apprenticeship Phase. Let your worksubtly demonstrate your individual spirit, but when it comes to matters ofpolitics, morals, and values, make a show of adhering to the accepted standardsof your environment. Think of the workplace as a kind of theater in which you of your environment. Think of the workplace as a kind of theater in which youare always wearing a mask. (Reserve your most interesting and colorful thoughtsfor your friends, and for those whom you can trust outside work.) Be careful inwhat you say—it is not worth the bother of freely expressing your opinions. Ifyou sin against this Deadly Reality, people will not acknowledge the cause oftheir disaffection, because they do not want to think of themselves asconformists. They will find some other reason to ostracize or sabotage you. Donot give them material for this kind of attack. Later, as you gain mastery, youwill have ample opportunity to let your individuality shine through and to revealyour contempt for people’s correctness.Rigidity: The world has become increasingly complex in many ways, andwhenever we humans face a situation that seems complicated our response is toresort to a kind of artificial simplicity, to create habits and routines that give us asense of control. We prefer what is familiar—ideas, faces, procedures—becausethey are comforting. This