anthem. Scared silly, the manadmitted he had used an arranger who had done a bad job. Here he was diggingseveral graves: Clearly the poor arranger could be called to task. The composerwas responsible for the hire, and he, too, could pay for the mistake. And what ofthe other composers, including Shostakovich? Stalin could be relentless once hesmelled fear.Shostakovich had heard enough: it was foolish, he said, to blame thearranger, who was mostly following orders. He then subtly redirected theconversation to a different subject--whether a composer should do his ownorchestrations. What did Stalin think on the matter? Always eager to prove hisexpertise, Stalin swallowed the bait. The dangerous moment passed.Shostakovich maintained his presence of mind in several ways. First, insteadof letting Stalin intimidate him, he forced himself to see the man as he was:short, fat, ugly, unimaginative. The dictator's famous piercing gaze was just atrick, a sign of his own insecurity. Second, Shostakovich faced up to Stalin,talking to him normally and straightforwardly. By his actions and tone of voice,the composer showed that he was not intimidated. Stalin fed off fear. If, withoutbeing aggressive or brazen, you showed no fear, he would generally leave youalone.The key to staying unintimidated is to convince yourself that the personyou're facing is a mere mortal, no different from you--which is in fact the truth.See the person, not the myth. Imagine him or her as a child, as someone riddledwith insecurities. Cutting the other person down to size will help you to keepyour mental balance. Develop your Fingerspitzengefuhl (fingertip feel). Presence of mind dependsnot only on your mind's ability to come to your aid in difficult situations but alsoon the speed with which this happens. Waiting until the next day to think of theright action to take does you no good at all. "Speed" here means responding tocircumstances with rapidity and making lightning-quick decisions. This power isoften read as a kind of intuition, what the Germans call "Fingerspitzengefuhl"(fingertip feel). Erwin Rommel, who led the German tank campaign in NorthAfrica during World War II, had great fingertip feel. He could sense when theAllies would attack and from what direction. In choosing a line of advance, hehad an uncanny feel for his enemy's weakness; at the start of a battle, he couldintuit his enemy's strategy before it unfolded.To Rommel's men their general seemed to have a genius for war, and he did possess a quicker mind than most. But Rommel also did things to enhance hisquickness, things that reinforced his feel for battle. First, he devouredinformation about the enemy--from details about its weaponry to thepsychological traits of the opposing general. Second, he made himself an expertin tank technology, so that he could get the most out of his equipment. Third, henot only memorized maps of the North African desert but would fly over it, atgreat risk, to get a bird's-eye view of the battlefield. Finally, he personalized hisrelationship with his men. He always had a sense of their morale and knewexactly what he could expect from them.Rommel didn't just