Harcourt, Inc. The Ramayana of R. K. Narayan by R. K. Narayan. Copyright (c) R. K. Narayan, 1972. Used by permission of Viking Penguin, a member of Penguin Group (USA) Inc. The Gay Science by Friedrich Nietzsche, edited by Bernard Williams, translated by Josefine Nauckhoff. Copyright (c) 2001 by Cambridge University Press. Reprinted by permission of Cambridge University Press. Human, All Too Human: A Book of Free Spirits by Friedrich Nietzsche, translated by R. J. Hollingdale. Copyright (c) 1986, 1996 by Cambridge University Press. Reprinted by permission of Cambridge University Press. The Art of Political Warfare by John J. Pitney, Jr. Copyright (c) 2000 by University of Oklahoma Press. Reprinted by permission of University of Oklahoma Press. The Tao of Spycraft: Intelligence Theory and Practice in Traditional China by Ralph D. Sawyer. Copyright (c) 1998 by Ralph D. Sawyer. Reprinted by permission of Westview Press, a member of Perseus Books, LLC. The Art of War by Sun-tzu, translated by Ralph D. Sawyer. Copyright (c) 1994 by Ralph D. Sawyer. Reprinted by permission of Westview Press, a member of Perseus Books, LLC. Sun-tzu: The Art of Warfare by Sun-tzu, translated by Roger T. Ames. Copyright (c) 1993 by Roger T. Ames. Used by permission of Ballantine Books, a division of Random House, Inc. Mao: A Biography by Ross Terrill. Copyright (c) 1999 by Ross Terrill. All rights reserved. Used by permission of Stanford University Press. The Templars and the Assassins: The Militia of Heaven by James Wasserman. Copyright (c) 2001 by James Wasserman. By permission of Destiny Books. The I Ching or Book of Changes (third edition), translated by Richard Wilhelm. Copyright (c) 1950 by Bollingen Foundation, Inc. New material copyright (c) 1967 by Bollingen Foundation. Copyright renewed 1977 by Princeton University Press. Reprinted by permission of Princeton University Press. The 50 th Law 50 Cent and Robert Greene Contents Foreword Introduction Chapter 1 See Things for What They Are-Intense Realism Chapter 2 Make Everything Your Own—Self-Reliance Chapter 3 Turn Shit into Sugar—Opportunism Chapter 4 Keep Moving—Calculated Momentum Chapter 5 Know When to Be Bad—Aggression Chapter 6 Lead from the Front—Authority Chapter 7 Know Your Environment from the Inside Out—Connection Chapter 8 Respect the Process—Mastery Chapter 9 Push Beyond Your Limits—Self-Belief Chapter 10 Confront Your Mortality—the Sublime Acknowledgments Other Books by 50 Cent and Robert Greene Copyright About the Publisher Foreword I first met 50 Cent in the winter of 2006. He had been a fan of my book The 48 Laws of Power , and he was interested in collaborating on a book project. In the meeting, we talked about war, terrorism, the music business. What struck me most was that we had a remarkably similar way of looking at the world, one that transcended the great differences in our backgrounds. For instance, in discussing the power games he was experiencing at that time in the music business, we both looked past people’s benign explanations for their behavior and tried to figure out what they were really up to. He