asneeded, you will build for yourself a reputation as someone tough, someoneworthy of respect and a little fear. The passive-aggressive obstructionists who tryto undermine you covertly will also think twice about taking you on.The following are five basic methods of deterrence and reverse intimidation.You can use them all in offensive warfare, but they are particularly effective indefense, for moments when you find yourself vulnerable and under attack. Theyare culled from the experiences and writings of the greatest masters of the art. Surprise with a bold maneuver. The best way to hide your weakness and tobluff your enemies into giving up their attack is to take some unexpected, bold,risky action. Perhaps they had thought you were vulnerable, and now you areacting as someone who is fearless and confident. This will have two positiveeffects: First, they will tend to think your move is backed up by something real--they will not imagine you could be foolish enough to do something audaciousjust for effect. Second, they will start to see strengths and threats in you that they had not imagined.A certain person said the following. There are two kinds of dispositions,inward and outward, and a person who is lacking in one or the other isworthless. It is, for example, like the blade of a sword, which one shouldsharpen well and then put in its scabbard, periodically taking it out andknitting one's eyebrows as in an attack, wiping off the blade, and then placingit in its scabbard again. If a person has his sword out all the time, he ishabitually swinging a naked blade; people will not approach him and he willhave no allies. If a sword is always sheathed, it will become rusty, the bladewill dull, and people will think as much of its owner.HAGAKURE: THE BOOK OF THE SAMURAI, YAMAMOTOTSUNETOMO, 1659-1720Reverse the threat. If your enemies see you as someone to be pushed around,turn the tables with a sudden move, however small, designed to scare them.Threaten something they value. Hit them where you sense they may bevulnerable, and make it hurt. If that infuriates them and makes them attack you,back off a moment and then hit them again when they're not expecting it. Showthem you are not afraid of them and that you are capable of a ruthlessness theyhad not seen in you. You needn't go too far; just inflict a little pain. Send a short,threatening message to indicate that you are capable of a lot worse. Seem unpredictable and irrational. In this instance you do somethingsuggesting a slightly suicidal streak, as if you felt you had nothing to lose. Youshow that you are ready to take your enemies down with you, destroying theirreputations in the process. (This is particularly effective with people who have alot to lose themselves--powerful people with sterling reputations.) To defeat youwill be costly and perhaps self-destructive. This will make fighting you veryunattractive. You are not acting out emotionally; that is a sign of weakness. Youare simply hinting that you are a little irrational and that your next move