hedeveloped a two-pronged approach—he crafted a comprehensive and fluidstrategy based on his perception of the opponent’s habits, and he imprinted thisstrategy into the nervous system of his fighters through hours of mitt work. Onthis level, his training did not consist of individual elements that he worked onwith his boxers, but of an integrated, seamless form of preparation that closelysimulated the experience of a fight, repeated over and over again. It took manyyears of a hit-and-miss process to create this high-level training, but when it allcame together his success rate skyrocketed.In any competitive environment in which there are winners or losers, theperson who has the wider, more global perspective will inevitably prevail. Thereason is simple: such a person will be able to think beyond the moment andcontrol the overall dynamic through careful strategizing. Most people areperpetually locked in the present. Their decisions are overly influenced by the perpetually locked in the present. Their decisions are overly influenced by themost immediate event; they easily become emotional and ascribe greatersignificance to a problem than it should have in reality. Moving toward masterywill naturally bring you a more global outlook, but it is always wise to expeditethe process by training yourself early on to continually enlarge your perspective.You can do so by always reminding yourself of the overall purpose of the workyou are presently engaged in and how this meshes with your long-term goals. Indealing with any problem, you must train yourself to look at how it inevitablyconnects to a larger picture. If your work is not having the desired effect, youmust look at it from all angles until you find the source of the problem. Youmust not merely observe the rivals in your field, but dissect and uncover theirweaknesses. “Look wider and think further ahead” must be your motto. Throughsuch mental training, you will smooth the path to mastery while separatingyourself ever further from the competition.6. Submit to the other—The Inside-out PerspectiveAs narrated in chapter 2 (page 72), in December 1977, Daniel Everett, alongwith his wife, Keren, and their two children, arrived in a remote village in theAmazonian jungles of Brazil, where they would end up spending a good part ofthe next twenty years of their lives. The village belonged to a tribe scattered inthe area known as the Pirahã. Everett had been sent there by the SummerInstitute of Languages (SIL)—a Christian organization that trains futuremissionaries in the linguistic skills that will enable them to translate the Bibleinto indigenous languages and help spread the Gospel. Everett himself was anordained minister.The directors at SIL considered Pirahã one of the last frontiers in their questto translate the Bible into all languages; it represented perhaps the mostchallenging language for any outsider to learn. The Pirahã had lived for centuriesin the same Amazonian basin, resisting all attempts to assimilate or learnPortuguese. Living in such isolation, a point was reached in which no oneoutside of the Pirahã could speak or understand their language. Severalmissionaries had been sent there after World War II, and all had failed to makemuch