the Tokugawa system. It is the road of the cosmos, not just a set of ethics for the artist or priest to live by, but the divine footprints of God pointing the Way. 2Strategy : “Heiho” is a word of Chinese derivation meaning military strategy. “Hei” means soldier and “Ho” means method or form. 3Homage to heaven : “Ten” or heaven means the Shinto religion, Shinto ―a word compounding the two characters “Kami” (God) and “Michi” (Way”―is the old religion of Japan. In Shinto there are many Holies, gods of steel and fermentation, place and industry, and so-on, and the first gods, ancestors to the Imperial line. 4Kwannon : God(dess) of mercy in Buddhism. 5Arima Kihei : of the Shinto school. See note 15. 6All things with no teacher : There had been traditions instituted for the arts in the Muromachi period, system of grades and licenses and seniority, and these were perpetuated perhaps more rigidly under the Tokugawa bureaucracy. Musashi studied various arts in various schools, but when after his enlightenment he pursued his studies he had become separate from traditional guidance. He writes his final words in the book of the Void: “Then you will come to think of things in a wide sense, and taking the Void as the Way, you will see the Way as Void.” 7Spirit : “Shin” or “Kokoro” has been translated “heart”, “soul”, or “spirit”. It could be put as feeling, manner. It has always been said “The sword is the soul of the samurai.” as it is mirrored in the Way of heaven and Kwannon. The time is the night of the tenth day of the tenth month, at the hour of the tiger8 (3-5 a.m.) 8The hour of the tiger : Years, months and hours were named after the ancient Chinese Zodiacal time system. THE GROUND BOOK ~ Stategy is the craft of the warrior. Commanders must enact the craft, and troopers should know this Way. There is no warrior in the world today who really understands the Way of strategy. There are various Ways. There is the Way of Salvation by the law of Buddha, the Way of Confucius governing the Way of learning, the Way of healing as a doctor, as a poet teaching the Way of Waka,9 tea,10 archery,11 and many arts and skills. Each man practices as he feels inclined. It is said the warrior's is the twofold Way of pen and sword,12 and he should have a taste for both Ways. Even if a man has no natural ability he can be a warrior by sticking assiduously to both divisions of the Way. Generally speaking, the Way of the warrior is resolute acceptance of death.13 Although not only warriors but priests, women, peasants 9Waka : The thirty-one syllable poem. The word means “Song of Japan” or “Song in Harmony”. 10Tea: Tea drinking is studied in schools, just like sword-fencing. It is basically a ritual, based on simple refined rules, between a few persons in a small