LIFE’S TASKYou possess a kind of inner force that seeks to guide you toward your Life’s Task—what youare meant to accomplish in the time that you have to live. In childhood this force was clearto you. It directed you toward activities and subjects that fit your natural inclinations, thatsparked a curiosity that was deep and primal. In the intervening years, the force tends tofade in and out as you listen more to parents and peers, to the daily anxieties that wear awayat you. This can be the source of your unhappiness—your lack of connection to who you areand what makes you unique. The first move toward mastery is always inward—learning whoyou really are and reconnecting with that innate force. Knowing it with clarity, you will findyour way to the proper career path and everything else will fall into place. It is never toolate to start this process. THE HIDDEN FORCEToward the end of April 1519, after months of illness, the artist Leonardo daVinci felt certain that his death was only a few days away. For the past two yearsLeonardo had been living in the château of Cloux in France, the personal guestof the French king, François I. The king had showered him with money andhonors, considering him the living embodiment of the Italian Renaissance, whichhe had wanted to import to France. Leonardo had been most useful to the king,advising him on all kinds of important matters. But now, at the age of sixty-seven, his life was about to end and his thoughts turned toward other things. Hemade out his will, received the holy sacrament in church, and then returned tohis bed, waiting for the end to come.As he lay there, several of his friends—including the king—visited him.They noticed that Leonardo was in a particularly reflective mood. He was notsomeone who usually liked to talk about himself, but now he shared memoriesfrom his childhood and youth, dwelling on the strange and improbable course ofhis life.Leonardo had always had a strong sense of fate, and for years he had beenhaunted by one particular question: is there some kind of force from within thatmakes all living things grow and transform themselves? If such a force in natureexisted, he wanted to discover it, and he looked for signs of it in every thing heexamined. It was an obsession. Now, in his final hours, after his friends had lefthim alone, Leonardo would have almost certainly applied this question in someform or another to the riddle of his own life, searching for signs of a force or afate that had brought about his own development and guided him to the present.Leonardo would have begun such a search by first thinking back to hischildhood in the village of Vinci, some twenty miles outside Florence. Hisfather, Ser Piero da Vinci, was a notary and staunch member of the powerfulbourgeoisie, but since Leonardo had been born out of wedlock, he was barredfrom attending the university or practicing any of the noble professions. Hisschooling therefore was minimal, and so as