beyond that, this experiment also called into questionthe whole notion of pain. Pain, it seemed, was a kind of opinion the bodyrendered on what it was experiencing, on its own health. This opinion could betricked or manipulated, as the mirror experiment had shown.In further experiments, Ramachandran arranged it so that patients would seea student’s arm instead of their own, superimposed over the phantom limb. Theywould not be aware that this had been done, and when the student moved thearm, they experienced the same relief from paralysis. It was merely the sight ofthe movement that created the effect. This made the sensation of pain seemincreasingly more subjective and subject to alteration.Over the ensuing years, Ramachandran would perfect this creative style ofinvestigation into an art, transforming himself into one of the leadingneuroscientists in the world. He developed certain guidelines for his strategy. Hewould look for any evidence of anomalies in neuroscience or in related fields,ones that brought up questions that had the potential to challenge conventionalwisdom. His criteria were that he had to be able to show it was a realphenomenon (something like telepathy would not fall into this category), that itcould be explained in terms of current science, and that it had important could be explained in terms of current science, and that it had importantimplications stretching beyond the confines of his own field. If others wereignoring it because it seemed too weird, so much the better—he would have theresearch field all to himself.Furthermore, he looked for ideas that he could verify through simpleexperiments—no heavy or expensive equipment. He had noticed that those whogot large grants for their research, which would include all of the technologicalgadgetry that went with it, would become embroiled in political games in orderto justify the money being spent on them. They would rely on technology insteadof on their own thinking. And they would become conservative, not wanting torock the boat with their conclusions. He preferred to do his work with cottonswabs and mirrors, and by engaging in detailed conversations with his patients.For instance, he became intrigued by the neurological disorder known asapotemnophilia—the desire of perfectly healthy people to have a limbamputated, with many of them actually going through with the surgery. Somehad speculated that this well-known disorder is a cry for attention, or stems froma form of sexual perversion, or that patients had seen in childhood an amputeeand the image had somehow become imprinted as an ideal to them. In all ofthese speculations, people seemed to doubt the reality of the actual sensation—itwas all in their heads, they implied.Through simple interviews with several such patients, Ramachandran madesome discoveries that dispelled these notions. In all cases they involved the leftleg, which was curious enough. In talking to them, it seemed clear toRamachandran that they were not after attention, nor were they sexuallyperverse, but rather they were experiencing a very real desire, because of somevery real sensation. With a pen, they all marked the exact spot where theywanted the amputation.When he did simple galvanic skin response tests on