constant contact between the tworealms. It is practical knowledge of the highest form. Events in life mean nothingif you do not reflect on them in a deep way, and ideas from books are pointless ifthey have no application to life as you live it. In strategy all of life is a game thatyou are playing. This game is exciting but also requires deep and seriousattention. The stakes are so high. What you know must translate into action, andaction must translate into knowledge. In this way strategy becomes a lifelongchallenge and the source of constant pleasure in surmounting difficulties andsolving problems.Nature has made up her mind that what cannot defend itself shall not bedefended.RALPH WALDO EMERSON, 1803-1882In this world, where the game is played with loaded dice, a man must have atemper of iron, with armor proof to the blows of fate, and weapons to makehis way against men. Life is one long battle; we have to fight at every step;and Voltaire very rightly says that if we succeed, it is at the point of thesword, and that we die with the weapon in our hand.--Arthur Schopenhauer, Counsels and Maxims, 1851 PART I SELF-DIRECTED WARFAREWar, or any kind of conflict, is waged and won through strategy. Think ofstrategy as a series of lines and arrows aimed at a goal: at getting you to a certainpoint in the world, at helping you to attack a problem in your path, at figuringout how to encircle and destroy your enemy. Before directing these arrows atyour enemies, however, you must first direct them at yourself.Your mind is the starting point of all war and all strategy. A mind that iseasily overwhelmed by emotion, that is rooted in the past instead of the present,that cannot see the world with clarity and urgency, will create strategies that willalways miss the mark.To become a true strategist, you must take three steps. First, become awareof the weakness and illness that can take hold of the mind, warping its strategicpowers. Second, declare a kind of war on yourself to make yourself moveforward. Third, wage ruthless and continual battle on the enemies within you byapplying certain strategies.The following four chapters are designed to make you aware of the disordersthat are probably flourishing in your mind right now and to arm you withspecific strategies for eliminating them. These chapters are arrows to aim atyourself. Once you have absorbed them through thought and practice, they willserve as a self-corrective device in all your future battles, freeing the grandstrategist within you. DECLARE WAR ON YOUR ENEMIESTHE POLARITY STRATEGYLife is endless battle and conflict, and you cannot fight effectively unless you canidentify your enemies. People are subtle and evasive, disguising their intentions,pretending to be on your side. You need clarity. Learn to smoke out yourenemies, to spot them by the signs and patterns that reveal hostility. Then, onceyou have them in your sights, inwardly declare war. As the opposite poles of amagnet create motion, your enemies--your opposites--can fill you with purposeand direction. As people who