stand in your way, who represent what you loathe,people to react against, they are a source of energy. Do not be naive: with someenemies there can be no compromise, no middle ground.Then [Xenophon] got up, and first called together the under-officers ofProxenos. When they were collected he said: "Gentlemen, I cannot sleep andI don't think you can; and I can't lie here when I see what a plight we are in.It is clear that the enemy did not show us open war until they thought theyhad everything well prepared; and no-one among us takes the pains to makethe best possible resistance. "Yet if we give way, and fall into the king's power,what do we expect our fate will be? When his own half-brother was dead, theman cut off his head and cut off his hand and stuck them up on a pole. Wehave no-one to plead for us, and we marched here to make the king a slave orto kill him if we could, and what do you think our fate will be? Would he notgo to all extremes of torture to make the whole world afraid of making war onhim? Why, we must do anything to keep out of his power! While the trucelasted, I never ceased pitying ourselves, I never ceased congratulating theking and his army. What a vast country I saw, how large, what endlessprovisions, what crowds of servants, how many cattle and sheep, what gold,what raiment! But when I thought of these our soldiers--we had no share inall these good things unless we bought them, and few had anything left to buywith; and to procure anything without buying was debarred by our oaths.While I reasoned like this, I sometimes feared the truce more than the warnow. "However, now they have broken the truce, there is an end both to theirinsolence and to our suspicion. There lie all these good things before us,prizes for whichever side prove the better men; the gods are the judges of the contest, and they will be with us, naturally.... "When you have appointed asmany commanders as are wanted, assemble all the other soldiers andencourage them; that will be just what they want now. Perhaps you havenoticed yourselves how crestfallen they were when they came into camp, howcrestfallen they went on guard; in such a state I don't know what you could dowith them.... But if someone could turn their minds from wondering what willhappen to them, and make them wonder what they could do, they will bemuch more cheerful. You know, I am sure, that not numbers or strength bringsvictory in war; but whichever army goes into battle stronger in soul, theirenemies generally cannot withstand them." ANABASIS: THE MARCH UP COUNTRY, XENOPHON, 430?-355? B.C.THE INNER ENEMYIn the spring of 401 B.C., Xenophon, a thirty-year-old country gentleman wholived outside Athens, received an intriguing invitation: a friend was recruitingGreek soldiers to fight as mercenaries for Cyrus, brother of the Persian kingAtaxerxes, and asked him to go along. The request was somewhat unusual: theGreeks