Antaeus, son of Poseidon and Mother Earth, was in thehabit of forcing strangers to wrestle with him until they were exhausted,whereupon he killed them; for not only was he a strong and skilful athlete, butwhenever he touched the earth, his strength revived. He saved the skulls of hisvictims to roof a temple of Poseidon. It is not known whether Heracles, whowas determined to end this barbarous practice, challenged Antaeus, or waschallenged by him. Antaeus, however, proved no easy victim, being a giantwho lived in a cave beneath a towering cliff, where he feasted on the flesh oflions, and slept on the bare ground in order to conserve and increase hisalready colossal strength. Mother Earth, not yet sterile after her birth of theGiant, had conceived Antaeus in a Libyan cave, and found more reason toboast of him than even of her monstrous elder children, Typhon, Tityus, andBriareus. It would have gone ill with the Olympians if he had fought againstthem on the Plains of Phlegra. In preparation for the wrestling match, bothcombatants cast off their lion pelts, but while Heracles rubbed himself withoil in the Olympian fashion, Antaeus poured hot sand over his limbs lestcontact with the earth through the soles of his feet alone should proveinsufficient. Heracles planned to preserve his strength and wear Antaeusdown, but after tossing him full length on the ground, he was amazed to seethe giant's muscles swell and a healthy flush suffuse his limbs as MotherEarth revived him. The combatants grappled again, and presently Antaeus flung himself down of his own accord, not waiting to be thrown; upon which,Heracles, realizing what he was at, lifted him high into the air, then crackedhis ribs and, despite the hollow groans of Mother Earth, held him aloft untilhe died.THE GREEK MYTHS, VOL. 2, ROBERT GRAVES, 1955Suddenly the Carthaginian interior lay open to Scipio's army. He proceededto take town after town, advancing much as Hannibal had in Italy. Then helanded a contingent of troops at the port of Tunis, within sight of Carthage'swalls. Now it was the Carthaginians' turn to panic, and Hannibal, their greatestgeneral, was immediately recalled. In 202 B.C., after sixteen years of fighting onRome's doorstep, Hannibal was finally compelled to leave Italy.Hannibal landed his army to Carthage's south and made plans to fight Scipio.But the Roman general retreated west, to the Bagradas Valley--the most fertilefarmlands of Carthage, its economic base. There he went on a rampage,destroying everything in sight. Hannibal had wanted to fight near Carthage,where he had shelter and material reinforcements. Instead he was compelled topursue Scipio before Carthage lost its richest territory. But Scipio kept retreating,refusing battle until he had lured Hannibal to the town of Zama, where hesecured a solid position and forced Hannibal to camp in a place without water.Now the two armies finally met in battle. Exhausted by their pursuit of Scipio,their cavalry neutralized by Masinissa's, the Carthaginians were defeated, andwith no refuge close enough to retreat to, Hannibal was forced to surrender.Carthage quickly sued for peace, and under the harsh