means of this exercise that hecould discover what worked for him. “In Endymion,” he later wrote, “I leapedheadlong into the Sea and thereby became better acquainted with the Soundings,the quicksands and the rocks, than if I had stayed upon the green shore and …took tea and comfortable advice.”In the aftermath of writing what he considered to be a mediocre poem, Keatstook stock of all of the invaluable lessons he had learned. Never again would hesuffer from writer’s block—he had trained himself to write past any obstacle. Hehad acquired now the habit of writing quickly, with intensity and focus—concentrating his work in a few hours. He could revise with equal speed. He hadlearned how to criticize himself and his overly romantic tendencies. He couldlook at his own work with a cold eye. He had learned that it was in the actualwriting of the poem that the best ideas would often come to him, and that he hadto boldly keep writing or he would miss such discoveries. Most important of all,as a counterexample to Endymion, he had hit upon a style that suited him—language as compact and dense with imagery as possible, with not a singlewasted line.With these lessons in hand, in the years 1818 to 1819, before he becamegravely ill, Keats would produce some of the most memorable poems in theEnglish language, including all of his greatest odes. This added up to perhaps themost productive two years of writing in the history of Western literature—all ofit set up by the rigorous self-apprenticeship he had put himself through. By nature, we humans shrink from anything that seems possibly painful orovertly difficult. We bring this natural tendency to our practice of any skill.Once we grow adept at some aspect of this skill, generally one that comes moreeasily to us, we prefer to practice this element over and over. Our skill becomeslopsided as we avoid our weaknesses. Knowing that in our practice we can letdown our guard, since we are not being watched or under pressure to perform,we bring to this a kind of dispersed attention. We tend to also be quiteconventional in our practice routines. We generally follow what others havedone, performing the accepted exercises for these skills.This is the path of amateurs. To attain mastery, you must adopt what we shallcall Resistance Practice. The principle is simple—you go in the oppositedirection of all of your natural tendencies when it comes to practice. First, youresist the temptation to be nice to yourself. You become your own worst critic;you see your work as if through the eyes of others. You recognize your weaknesses, precisely the elements you are not good at. Those are the aspectsyou give precedence to in your practice. You find a kind of perverse pleasure inmoving past the pain this might bring. Second, you resist the lure of easing upon your focus. You train yourself to concentrate in practice with double theintensity, as if it were the real thing times two. In devising your own routines,you become as creative as possible.