6 he led his followers into the sea to purify themselves, then collectedsome salt from the shore. Word quickly spread throughout India that Gandhi hadbroken the salt law.Irwin followed these events with increasing alarm. It dawned on him thatGandhi had tricked him: instead of responding quickly and decisively to thisseemingly innocent march to the sea, the viceroy had left Gandhi alone, allowingthe march to gain momentum. The religious symbolism that seemed so harmless had stirred the masses, and the salt issue had somehow become a lightning rodfor disaffection with English policy. Gandhi had shrewdly chosen an issue thatthe English would not recognize as threatening but that would resonate withIndians. Had Irwin responded by arresting Gandhi immediately, the whole thingmight have died down. Now it was too late; to arrest him at this point wouldonly add fuel to the fire. Yet to leave him alone would show weakness and cedehim the initiative. Meanwhile nonviolent demonstrations were breaking out incities and villages all over India, and to respond to them with violence wouldonly make the demonstrators more sympathetic to moderate Indians. WhateverIrwin did, it seemed, would make things worse. And so he fretted, held endlessmeetings, and did nothing.It is impossible to win a contest with a helpless opponent since if you win youhave won nothing. Each blow you strike is unreturned so that all you can feelis guilt for having struck while at the same time experiencing the uneasysuspicion that the helplessness is calculated.STRATEGIES OF PSYCHOTHERAPY, JAY HALEY, 1 963In the days to come, the cause rippled outward. Thousands of Indianstraveled to India's coasts to collect salt as Gandhi had. Large cities saw massdemonstrations in which this illegal salt was given away or sold at a minimalprice. One form of nonviolent protest cascaded into another--a Congress-ledboycott of British goods, for one. Finally, on Irwin's orders, the British began torespond to the demonstrations with force. And on May 4 they arrested Gandhiand took him to prison, where he would stay for nine months without trial.Huang Ti, the legendary Yellow Emperor and reputed ancestor of the Choudynasty, the historical paradigm of concord and civilization, is said to havebrought harmony from chaos, tamed the barbarians and wild beasts, clearedthe forests and marshes, and invented the "five harmonious sounds," notthrough an act of epic bloodshed, but through his superior virtue, by adaptingand yielding to "natural conditions" and to the Will of Heaven. Confucianismhenceforth repudiates as unworkable the idea of military solutions to humanproblems. Huang Ti's most notable heir, we are told, was Ti Yao, a gentlemanwho "naturally and without effort," embraced reverence, courteousness, andintelligence. Nevertheless, during his reign, the Deluge, mythology'suniversal symbol of anomie, threatened to inundate the land. Thus it fell uponhim to appoint a successor to preserve the order of his own son. Ti Yao chosethe most qualified man for the job, the venerable Shun, who had in various tests already demonstrated a capacity to harmonize human affairs throughrighteousness....... Shun in turn selected Yu the Sage to engineer an end to theflood. Because Yu