he were to make it inParis, his name would have to be attached to some kind of movement--thatwould demonstrate his avant-garde status and give him free publicity.Considering the nature of his work and paranoiac-critical method, surrealismwas the only logical choice. Of course it helped that Dali's good friend Bunuelwas already a member of the group and that his lover, Gala, was also the wife ofPaul Eluard, one of surrealism's principal authors and thinkers. Through Bunuel,Gala, and a few others (people Dali called "messengers" and "porters"), hespread his name strategically throughout Paris and aimed himself directly atBreton. In truth, Dali despised any kind of organized group and actively dislikedBreton, but both could be useful to him. By insinuating his presence throughothers and suggesting that he was a surrealist avant la lettre, he cleverlymanaged to get Breton to invite him into the group.Now, as a true surrealist, an official insider, Dali could continue to wage hisinsidious war. At first he made a show of being a loyal member of the group, theplatform from which he spent several years winning over Paris with his strikingpaintings. The surrealists were grateful for the new life he had given them, but inreality he was using their name and presence to propel his career. Then, once hisfame was secure, he proceeded to dynamite the group from the inside. Theweaker the surrealists were internally, the more he could dominate them publicly.Dali deliberately chose Hitler and Lenin as images he knew would disgust manyin the group. That would both bring out Breton's totalitarian side and cause a major split among the members. Dali's "performance" at the meeting to expelhim was a surrealist masterpiece in itself, and a strategic blow to any vestiges ofgroup unity. Finally, when the movement was riven with division, he scamperedoff to New York to complete his campaign. Appropriating the seductive name ofsurrealism for himself, he would go down in history as its most famous member,far more famous than Breton.It is hard to make your way in the world alone. Alliances can help, but if youare starting out, it is hard to get the right people interested in an alliance withyou; there is nothing in it for them. The wisest strategy is often to join the groupthat can best serve your long-term interests, or the one with which you have themost affinity. Instead of trying to conquer this group from the outside, youburrow your way into it. As an insider you can gather valuable information abouthow it functions and particularly about its members' hypocrisies andweaknesses--knowledge you can use to wage insidious intraorganizationalwarfare. From the inside you can divide and conquer.Remember: your advantage here is that, unlike the other members, you haveno sentimental attachment to the group; your only allegiance is to yourself. Thatgives you the freedom you need to make the manipulative and destructivemaneuvers that will propel you to the fore at the others' expense.If you decide to wage a war for the total triumph of your individuality, youmust begin by inexorably destroying those who have