by looking at evidence and making connections in the mind about whathis findings could mean. His theory of evolution, devised in this way, has stoodthe test of time and has come to have profound ramifications on almost all formsof science. Through a mental process that we shall call the Current, CharlesDarwin made visible to us all what is completely invisible to the human eye.The Current is like a mental electrical charge that gains its power through aconstant alternation. We observe something in the world that strikes ourattention and makes us wonder what it might mean. In thinking about it, wedevise several possible explanations. When we look at the phenomenon again wesee it differently as we cycle through the various ideas we had imagined toaccount for it. Perhaps we conduct experiments to verify or alter ourspeculations. Now when we look at the phenomenon yet again, weeks or monthslater, we see more and more aspects of its hidden reality.If we had failed to speculate on the meaning of what we had observed, wesimply would have had an observation that led us nowhere. If we had speculatedwithout continuing to observe and verify, then we simply would have had somerandom idea floating in our heads. But by continually cycling betweenspeculation and observation/experiment, we are able to pierce deeper and deeperinto reality, like a drill that penetrates a piece of wood through its motion. TheCurrent is a constant dialogue between our thoughts and reality. If we go intothis process deeply enough, we come into contact with a theory that explainssomething far beyond the capability of our limited senses.The Current is merely an intensification of the most elementary powers ofhuman consciousness. Our most primitive ancestors would take note ofsomething unusual or out of place—broken twigs, chewed leaves, the outline ofa hoof or paw. Through an act of pure imagination, they would deduce that thismeant that an animal had passed by. This fact would be verified by tracking thefootprints. Through this process, what was not immediately visible to the eyes (apassing animal) became visible. All that has occurred since then is anelaboration of this power to increasingly higher levels of abstraction, to the pointof understanding hidden laws of nature—like evolution and relativity.Most often in culture we see people who short-circuit the Current. Theyobserve some phenomenon in culture or nature that makes them emotional andthey run rampant with speculations, never taking the time to entertain possibleexplanations that could have been verified by further observation. Theydisconnect themselves from reality and can then imagine whatever they want.On the other hand, we see many people, particularly in academia or in thesciences, who accumulate mountains of information and data from studies and statistics but never venture to speculate on the larger ramifications of thisinformation or connect it all into a theory. They are afraid to speculate because itseems unscientific and subjective, failing to understand that speculation is theheart and soul of human rationality, our way of connecting to reality and seeingthe invisible. To them, it is better to stick to facts and