tell him just what you have said, and he will treatyou well."...Her words pleased Holofernes and all his servants, and theymarveled at her wisdom and said, "There is no such a woman from one end ofthe earth to the other, either for beauty of face or wisdom of speech!"...On thefourth day Holofernes held a banquet for his slaves only, and did not invite any of his officers. And he said to Bagoas, the eunuch who had charge of allhis personal affairs, "Go now and persuade the Hebrew woman who is inyour care to join us and eat and drink with us."...So Bagoas went out from thepresence of Holofernes, and approached her...And Judith said, "Who am I, torefuse my lord? Surely whatever pleases him I will do at once, and it will be ajoy to me until the day of my death!" So she got up and arrayed herself in allher woman's finery. Then Judith came in and lay down, and olofernes' heartwas ravished with her and he was moved with great desire to possess her; forhe had been waiting for an opportunity to deceive her, ever since the day hefirst saw her. So Holofernes said to her, "Drink now, and be merry with us!"Judith said, "I will drink now, my lord, because my life means more to metoday than in all the days since I was born."...And Holofernes was greatlypleased with her, and drank a great quantity of wine, much more than he hadever drunk in any one day since he was born. When evening came, his slavesquickly withdrew, and Bagoas closed the tent from outside and shut out theattendants from his master's presence; and they went to bed.... So Judith wasleft alone in the tent, with Holofernes stretched out on his bed, for he wasovercome with wine.... [Judith] went to the post at the end of the bed, aboveHolofernes' head, and took down his sword that hung there. She came closeto his bed and took ahold of the hair on his head.... And she struck his necktwice with all her might and severed his head from his body. Then shetumbled his body off the bed and pulled the canopy from the posts; after amoment she went out, and gave Holofernes' head to her maid, who placed itin her food bag.... So Bagoas...went into the bedchamber and found himthrown down on the platform dead, with his head cut off and missing. And hecried out with a loud voice and wept and groaned.... Then he went to the tentwhere Judith had stayed, and when he did not find her he rushed out to thepeople and shouted, "The slaves have tricked us! One Hebrew woman hasbrought disgrace upon the house of Nebuchadnezzar! For look, here isHolofernes lying on the ground, and his head is not on him!" When theleaders of the Assyrian army heard this, they rent their tunics and weregreatly dismayed, and their loud cries and shouts arose in the midst of thecamp.... When the men in the tents heard it,