and anxieties. Everyone was in a tizzy about them,but June was the center of the storm. He showed Murray's letter to his mother,whom it greatly disturbed. June promised that on Murray's imminent visit homehe would not only not avoid him but would confront him and really let him haveit.Murray arrived in Waverly in early February. On the second night of hisvisit, at a dinner at his sister's, June showed up with his wife; the brothers' fatherand mother were also present. The encounter lasted some two hours, its mainparticipants Murray, June, and their mother. It was a bitter family confrontation.A furious June threatened a lawsuit over Murray's scurrilous stories and accusedhis mother of conspiring with her favorite. When Murray confirmed that he and his mother were in cahoots, that it had all been plotted years ago between himand Mom, she was outraged, denied knowledge of any plot, and said she wouldnever tell Murray anything again. June told his own stories about his professorbrother; Murray responded that they were amusing, but he knew better ones. Theentire conversation centered on personal issues, and many repressed emotionscame to the surface. But Murray remained strangely detached. He made sure hetook no sides; no one was quite happy with what he was saying.The next day Murray showed up at June's house--and June, for some reason,was happy to see him. Murray told more gossipy stories, including one he hadheard about how well June was handling the situation considering all the stresshe was under. June, feeling quite emotional, started to open up to his brotherabout his problems: he was really worried about their sister, he said, eventhought she might be retarded. Later that day Murray visited the sister and toldher what June had said about her; she was more than able to take care of herself,she replied, and had had enough of the family's intrusive concern. More visitsfollowed with other family members. In each case, whenever someone tried topass along some gossip or get Murray to take his or her side in the familyconstellation, he would either deflect the attempt with a neutral comment or passit along to the person involved.The day Murray left, everyone came to say good-bye. The sister seemedmore relaxed; so did the father. The family mood was noticeably altered. A weeklater Murray's mother sent him a letter that ended, "With all its ups and downs,your last trip home was the greatest ever." June now wrote regularly to hisbrother. The conflict over controlling the family business was defused andsettled. Murray's visits home now became things everyone looked forward to,even though he was still up to his old tricks with stories and such.I regarded most of the people I met solely and exclusively as creatures I coulduse as porters in my voyages of ambition. Almost all these porters sooner orlater became exhausted. Unable to endure the long marches that I forced onthem at top speed and under all climatic conditions, they died on the way. Itook others. To attach them to my service, I promised to