abstract words or learn mathematics. She was also not goodat socializing with other children, who often made fun of her for her differences.With such learning disabilities, what could she hope to do in life beyond somekind of menial job? To make matters worse, she had an extremely active mind,and without something to concentrate on, she would give in to feelings of intenseanxiety.Whenever she felt troubled, Temple instinctively retreated to two activitiesthat were comfortable to her: interacting with animals and building things withher hands. With animals, particularly horses, she had an uncanny ability to sensetheir feelings and thoughts. She became an expert horseback rider. Because shetended to think first in images, when it came to making things with her hands(like sewing or woodwork), she could envision the finished product in her mindand then easily put it together.At the age of eleven, Temple went to visit an aunt who had a ranch inArizona. There she realized that she had an even greater sense of empathy forcattle than she did for horses. One day she watched with particular interest assome of the cattle were placed in a squeeze chute that pressed them on theirsides to relax them before their vaccination shots. Throughout her childhoodTemple had had the desire to be held tightly, but could not stand being held byan adult—she felt like she had no control in such a situation, and would panic.She pleaded with her aunt to allow her to be put into the squeeze device herself.The aunt agreed, and for thirty minutes Temple gave in to the feeling of pressureshe had always dreamed of. Once it was over, she felt an enormous sense ofcalmness. After that experience she became obsessed with the machine, andseveral years later managed to build her own primitive version of it that shecould use at home.Now she was obsessed with the subject of cattle, squeeze chutes, and theeffect of touch and pressure on autistic children. In order to satisfy her curiosity,she had to develop reading and researching skills. Once she did, she found shehad unusually high powers of concentration—she could read for hours on onesubject without getting the slightest bit bored. Her research slowly expanded intobooks on psychology, biology, and science in general. Because of the intellectualskills she had developed, she was admitted into a university. Her horizons wereslowly expanding.Several years later, she found herself pursuing a master’s degree in Animal Several years later, she found herself pursuing a master’s degree in AnimalSciences at Arizona State University. There, her obsession with cattle resurfaced—she wanted to do a detailed analysis of feedlots and cattle chutes in particular,to help understand the behavioral responses of the animals. Her professors therecould not understand such an interest, and told her it was not possible. Neverbeing one to take no for an answer, she found professors in another departmentwho would sponsor her. She did her study, and in the process finally caught aglimpse of her Life’s Task.She was not destined for a life in the university. She was a practical personwho liked to