most terrified by the unknown and unpredictable.The suddenness of his attacks made the speed of them doubly effective, leadingto confusion and panic.We live in a world in which speed is prized above almost all else, and actingfaster than the other side has itself become the primary goal. But most oftenpeople are merely in a hurry, acting and reacting frantically to events, all ofwhich makes them prone to error and wasting time in the long run. In order toseparate yourself from the pack, to harness a speed that has devastating force,you must be organized and strategic. First, you prepare yourself before anyaction, scanning your enemy for weaknesses. Then you find a way to get youropponents to underestimate you, to lower their guard. When you strikeunexpectedly, they will freeze up. When you hit again, it is from the side and outof nowhere. It is the unanticipated blow that makes the biggest impact. The less a thing is foreseen, the more...fright does it cause. This is nowhereseen better than in war, where every surprise strikes terror even to those whoare much the stronger.--Xenophon (430?-355? B.C.)CHEN/THE AROUSING (SHOCK, THUNDER)The hexagram Chen represents the eldest son, who seizes rule with energyand power. A yang line develops below two yin lines and presses upwardforcibly. This movement is so violent that it arouses terror. It is symbolized bythunder, which bursts forth from the earth and by its shock causes fear andtrembling.THE JUDGEMENT SHOCK brings success. Shock comes--oh, oh! Laughingwords--ha, ha! The shock terrifies for a hundred miles.... THE I CHING, CHINA, CIRCA EIGHTH CENTURY B.C.KEYS TO WARFAREIn May 1940 the German army invaded France and the Low Countries using anew form of warfare: the blitzkrieg. Advancing with incredible speed, theGermans coordinated tanks and airplanes in an attack that culminated in one ofthe quickest and most devastating victories in military history. The success of theblitzkrieg was largely due to the Allies' static, rigid defense--similar to the shah'sdefense against the Mongols. When the Germans breached this defense, theAllies could not adjust or react in time. The Germans advanced faster than theirenemy could process what was happening. By the time the Allies decided upon acounterstrategy it was too late--conditions had changed. They were always a stepbehind.Now more than ever, we find ourselves dealing with people who aredefensive and cautious, who begin any action from a static position. The reasonis simple: the pace of modern life is increasingly growing faster, full ofdistractions, annoyances, and interruptions. The natural response for many is toretreat inward, to erect psychological walls against the harsh realities of modernlife. People hate the feeling of being rushed and are terrified of making amistake. They unconsciously try to slow things down--by taking longer to makedecisions, being noncommittal, defensive, and cautious.Blitzkrieg warfare, adapted for daily combat, is the perfect strategy for thesetimes. While those around you remain defensive and immobile, you surprise them with sudden and decisive action, forcing them to act before they are ready.They cannot respond, as they usually do, by being elusive or cautious. They willmost likely