could possibly find, he began a series of treksinto the Pampas of Argentina, accompanied only by gauchos, collecting all kindsof unusual animal and insect specimens. Adopting the same strategy as on theship, he observed the gauchos and their ways, fitting into their culture as if oneof them. On these and other jaunts, he would brave marauding Indians,poisonous insects, and jaguars lurking in the forests. Without thinking of it, hehad developed a taste for adventure that would have shocked his family and friends.A year into the voyage, on a beach some 400 miles south of Buenos Aires,Darwin discovered something that would set his mind to thinking for many yearsto come. He came upon a cliff with streaks of white amid the rock. Seeing thatthey were enormous bones of some sort, he began to chip away at the rock,extracting as many of these remains as possible. They were of a size and kind hehad never seen before—the horns and armor of what seemed to be a giantarmadillo, the huge teeth of a mastodon, and then, most surprisingly, the tooth ofa horse. When the Spaniards and Portuguese had first arrived in South Americathere were no horses to be found, and yet this tooth was quite old and predatedtheir arrival. He began to wonder—if such species had died off long ago, theidea of all of life being created at once and for good seemed illogical. Moreimportant, how could so many species become extinct? Could life on the planetbe in a state of constant flux and development?Months later he was trekking through the high Andes, looking for raregeological specimens to send back. At an elevation of about 12,000 feet hediscovered some fossilized seashells and deposits of marine rocks—a rathersurprising find at such an altitude. As he examined them and the surroundingflora, he speculated that these mountains had once stood in the Atlantic Ocean.A series of volcanoes, thousands of years ago, must have raised them higher andhigher. Instead of relics to support the stories in the Bible, he was findingevidence for something shockingly different.As the journey progressed, Darwin noted some obvious changes in himself.He used to find almost any kind of work boring, but now he could labor all hoursof the day; in fact, with so much to explore and learn, he hated wasting a singleminute of the voyage. He had cultivated an incredible eye for the flora and faunaof South America. He could identify local birds by their songs, the markings ontheir eggs, their manner of taking flight. All of this information he could catalogand organize in an efficient manner. More important, his whole way of thinkinghad changed. He would observe something, read and write about it, then developa theory after even more observation, the theories and observations feeding offone another. Full of details about so many facets of the world he was exploring,ideas were sprouting up out of nowhere.In September 1835, the Beagle left the Pacific Coast of South America andheaded west for the journey home. Their first stop along the way was a