the language, as they are written Albert Einstein, who once wrote, “The words of the language, as they are writtenor spoken, do not seem to play any role in my mechanism of thought. Thepsychical entities which seem to serve as elements in thought are certain signsand more or less clear images which can be voluntarily reproduced andcombined.”Inventors such as Thomas Edison and Henry Ford thought not only in visualterms, but also in three-dimensional models. The great electrical and mechanicalengineer Nikola Tesla could supposedly visualize in minute detail a machine andall of its working parts, which he would then proceed to invent according towhat he had imagined.The reason for this “regression” to visual forms of thinking is simple. Humanworking memory is limited. We can only keep in mind several pieces ofinformation at the same time. Through an image we can simultaneously imaginemany things at once, at a glance. As opposed to words, which can be impersonaland rigid, a visualization is something we create, something that serves ourparticular needs of the moment and can represent an idea in a way that is morefluid and real than simply words. The use of images to make sense of the worldis perhaps our most primitive form of intelligence, and can help us conjure upideas that we can later verbalize. Words also are abstract; an image or modelmakes our idea suddenly more concrete, which satisfies our need to see and feelthings with our senses.Even if thinking in this way is not natural to you, using diagrams and modelsto help further the creative process can be immensely productive. Early in hisresearch, Charles Darwin, who was normally not a visual thinker, came up withan image to help him conceptualize evolution—an irregularly branching tree.This signified that all of life started from one seed; some branches of the treeending, others still growing and sending off new shoots. He literally drew such atree in a notebook. This image proved extremely helpful, and he returned to ittime and again. The molecular biologists James D. Watson and Francis Crickcreated a large three-dimensional model of the DNA molecule with which theycould interact and alter; this model played an important role in their discoveryand description of DNA.This use of images, diagrams, and models can help reveal to you patterns inyour thinking and new directions you can take that you would find hard toimagine exclusively in words. With your idea exteriorized in a relatively simplediagram or model, you can see your entire concept projected at once, which willhelp you organize masses of information and add new dimensions to yourconcept.This conceptual image or model can be the result of hard thinking, which is This conceptual image or model can be the result of hard thinking, which ishow Watson and Crick devised their three-dimensional DNA model, or it cancome in moments of fringe awareness—from a dream or a daydream. In thelatter case, such visualizations require a degree of relaxation on your part. If youthink too hard, you will come up with something too literal. Let your attentionwander, play