well, so he dreamed up the cruel theater of the death sentence, with its carefuldetails--the priest, the hoods, the coffins, the last-second pardon. This, hethought, would really humble and humiliate them. In fact, some of the prisonerswere driven insane by the events of that day. But the effect on Dostoyevsky wasdifferent: he had been afflicted for years with a sense of wandering, of feelinglost, of not knowing what to do with his time. An extremely sensitive man, thatday he literally felt his own death deep in his bones. And he experienced his"pardon" as a rebirth.The effect was permanent. For the rest of his life, Dostoyevsky wouldconsciously bring himself back to that day, remembering his pledge never towaste another moment. Or, if he felt he had grown too comfortable and complacent, he would go to a casino and gamble away all his money. Povertyand debt were for him a kind of symbolic death, throwing him back on thepossible nothingness of his life. In either case he would have to write, and notthe way other novelists wrote--as if it were a pleasant little artistic career, withall its attendant delights of salons, lectures, and other frills. Dostoyevsky wroteas if his life were at stake, with an intense feeling of urgency and seriousness.Death is impossible for us to fathom: it is so immense, so frightening, thatwe will do almost anything to avoid thinking about it. Society is organized tomake death invisible, to keep it several steps removed. That distance may seemnecessary for our comfort, but it comes with a terrible price: the illusion oflimitless time, and a consequent lack of seriousness about daily life. We arerunning away from the one reality that faces us all.As a warrior in life, you must turn this dynamic around: make the thought ofdeath something not to escape but to embrace. Your days are numbered. Will youpass them half awake and halfhearted or will you live with a sense of urgency?Cruel theaters staged by a czar are unnecessary; death will come to you withoutthem. Imagine it pressing in on you, leaving you no escape--for there is noescape. Feeling death at your heels will make all your actions more certain, moreforceful. This could be your last throw of the dice: make it count.While knowing that we will die someday, we think that all the others will diebefore us and that we will be the last to go. Death seems a long way off. Isthis not shallow thinking? It is worthless and is only a joke within a dream....Insofar as death is always at one's door, one should make sufficient effort andact quickly.--Hagakure: The Book of the Samurai, Yamamoto Tsunetomo (1659-1720)KEYS TO WARFAREQuite often we feel somewhat lost in our actions. We could do this or that--wehave many options, but none of them seem quite necessary. Our freedom is aburden--what do we do today, where do we go? Our daily patterns and routineshelp us to avoid feeling directionless, but there is always the niggling thoughtthat we could accomplish so much more.