Over the course ofyour life, you will be constantly jumping from one stone to the next to suit yourneeds. When this particular river is crossed, you will leave them behind you. Wewill call this constant shifting yet advancing use of allies the "Alliance Game."Many key principles of the Alliance Game originated in ancient China,which was composed of numerous states in continual flux--now weak, nowpowerful, now weak again. War was a dangerous affair, for a state that invadedanother would stir up a lot of mistrust among the others and would often finditself losing ground in the long run. Meanwhile, a state that remained too loyal toan ally might find itself pulled into a war from which it could not break free andwould go down in the process. The formation of proper alliances was in someways a more important art than that of warfare itself, and the statesmen adept atthis art were more powerful than military leaders.It was through the Alliance Game that the state of Chin was able to slowlyexpand during the dangerous Warring States period of 403-221 B.C. Chin wouldmake alliances with distant states and attack nearby ones; the nearby state thatChin had invaded could not get help from its outlying neighbor because thatneighbor was now allied to Chin. If Chin faced an enemy that had a key ally, itwould work first to disrupt the alliance--sowing dissension, spreading rumors,courting one of the two sides with money--until the alliance fell apart. Then Chinwould invade first one of the two states, then the other. Gradually, bit by bit, itgobbled up neighboring states until, in the late third century B.C., it was able tounify China--a remarkable feat.To play the Alliance Game right, today as in ancient China, you must berealistic to the core, thinking far ahead and keeping the situation as fluid as possible. The ally of today may be the enemy of tomorrow. Sentiment has noplace in the picture. If you are weak but clever, you can slowly leapfrog into aposition of strength by bouncing from one alliance to another. The oppositeapproach is to make a key alliance and stick with it, valuing trust and anestablished relationship. This can work well in stable times, but in periods offlux, which are more common, it can prove to be your undoing: differences ininterest will inevitably emerge, and at the same time it will become hard todisentangle yourself from a relationship in which so much emotion has beeninvested. It is safer to bank on change, to keep your options open and youralliances based on need, not loyalty or shared values.In the golden age of Hollywood, actresses had almost the least amount ofpower of anyone. Careers were short; even a great star would be replaced in afew years by someone younger. An actress would stay loyal to her studio, thenwatch helplessly as the roles dried up. The actress who best bucked the trendwas Joan Crawford, who played her own version of the Alliance Game. In 1933,for instance, she met the screenwriter Joseph Mankiewicz, then a timid