he make the platforms and themovement of the trains fit into the overall vision, even enhancing theirfunctionality? Such challenges excited him.The greatest danger he faced was that his energy would go flat over time asthe design dragged on into years, and he would lose touch with his originalvision. To combat this, Calatrava would maintain an attitude of constantdissatisfaction. The drawings were never quite right. They had to be continuallyimproved and perfected. By pushing for perfection and holding on to thisconstant feeling of uncertainty, the project never froze into something rigid andlifeless. It had to feel alive in the moment, as his brush touched the paper. Ifwhat he was designing began to feel dead in any way, it was time to start over.This not only required tremendous patience on his part, but a good deal ofcourage, as he wiped out the work of several months. Maintaining the edge andfeeling of aliveness, however, was more important.As the years went by and Calatrava was able to look back on all of hisprojects, he had a strange sensation. The process he had evolved felt as if it had projects, he had a strange sensation. The process he had evolved felt as if it hadcome from outside of him. It was not something he had created through his ownimagination, but rather it was nature itself that had led him to this perfectlyorganic and beautifully effective process. The projects would take root in hismind with some emotion or idea, and slowly grow through the drawings, alwaysalive and as fluid as life itself, like the stages of a plant leading to a flower.Feeling such vitality during the work, he would translate this sensation into thestructures themselves, evoking awe and wonder in the public that saw and usedthem. Because the creative process is an elusive subject and one for which we receiveno training, in our first creative endeavors we are most often left to our owndevices, to sink or swim. And in these circumstances we have to evolvesomething that suits our individual spirit and our profession. Often, however, wecan go quite wrong in evolving this process, particularly with the pressure toproduce results and the fear this instills in us. In the process Calatrava developedfor his work, we can discern an elemental pattern and principles that have wideapplication, built as they are on the natural inclinations and strengths of thehuman brain.First, it is essential to build into the creative process an initial period that isopen-ended. You give yourself time to dream and wander, to start out in a looseand unfocused manner. In this period, you allow the project to associate itselfwith certain powerful emotions, ones that naturally come out of you as you focuson your ideas. It is always easy to tighten up your ideas later on, and to makeyour project increasingly realistic and rational. But if you begin with a feeling oftightness and pressure, focusing on the funding, the competition, or people’sopinions, you will stifle the associative powers of the brain and quickly turn thework into something without