some are wanting in geniality of disposition, a quality which their entourage soon ﬁnd the want of, especially if they are in high oﬃce. Some are without organising ability , others lack moderation. In all such cases a careful man may make of habit a second nature. ccxxxix Do not be Captious. It is much more important to be sensible. To know more than is necessary blunts your weapons, for ﬁne points generally bend or break. Common-sense truth is the surest. It is well to know but not to niggle. Lengthy comment leads to disputes. It is much better to have sound sense, which does not wander from the matter in hand. ccxl Make use of F olly . The wisest play this card at times, and there are times when the greatest wisdom lies in seeming not to be wise. Y ou need not be unwise, but merely aﬀect unwisdom. To be wise with fools and foolish with the wise were of little use. Speak to each in his own language. He is no fool who aﬀects folly , but he is who suﬀers from it. Ingenuous folly rather than the pretended is the true foolishness, since cleverness has arrived at such a pitch. To be well liked one must dress in the skin of the simplest of animals. ccxli Put up with Raillery , but do not practise it. The ﬁrst is a form of courtesy , the second may lead to embarrassment. To snarl at play has something of the beast and seems to have more. Audacious raillery is delightful: to stand it proves power. To show oneself annoyed causes the other to be annoyed. Best leave it alone; the surest way not to put on the cap that might ﬁt. The most serious matters have arisen out of jests. Nothing requires more tact and attention. Before you begin to joke know how far the subject of your joke is able to bear it. ccxlii Push Advantages. Some put all their strength in the commencement and never carry a thing to a conclusion. They invent but never execute. These be paltering spirits. They obtain no fame, for they sustain no game to the end. Everything stops at a single stop. This arises in some from impatience, which is the failing of the Spaniard, as patience is the virtue of the Belgian. The latter bring things to an end, the former come to an end with things. They sweat away till the obstacle is surmounted, but content themselves with surmounting it: they do not know how to push the victory home. They prove that they can but will not: but this proves always that they cannot, or have no stability . If the undertaking is good, why not ﬁnish it? If it is bad, why undertake it? Strike down your quarry , if you are wise; be not content to ﬂush it. ccxliii Do not be too much of a Dove. Alternate the cunning of the serpent with