the Allies used a complicated series of deceptions to make theGermans expect an attack from many different directions, forcing them to spreadthemselves thin. Hitler's Russian campaign was much weakened by the need tokeep troops in France and the Balkans, to defend from attacks there--attacks thatnever came. Deception can be a great equalizer for the weaker side. Its artsinclude the gathering of intelligence, the spreading of misinformation, and theuse of propaganda to make the war more unpopular within the enemy camp.Second, look for opponents you can beat. Avoid enemies who have nothingto lose--they will work to bring you down whatever it costs. In the nineteenthcentury, Otto von Bismarck built up Prussia's military power on the backs ofweaker opponents such as the Danes. Easy victories enhance morale, developyour reputation, give you momentum, and, most important, do not cost youmuch.There will be times when your calculations misfire; what had seemed to bean easy campaign turns out hard. Not everything can be foreseen. Not only is itimportant to pick your battles carefully, then, but you must also know when toaccept your losses and quit. In 1971 the boxers Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier,both at the heights of their careers, met for the world heavyweightchampionship. It was a grueling match, one of the most exciting in history;Frazier won by a decision after nearly knocking out Ali in the fifteenth round.But both men suffered horribly in the fight; both threw a lot of good punches.Wanting revenge, Ali gained a rematch in 1974--another grueling fifteen-roundaffair--and won by a decision. Neither boxer was happy, both wanted a moreconclusive result, so they met again in 1975, in the famous "Thrilla in Manila." This time Ali won in the fourteenth round, but neither man was ever the sameagain: these three fights had taken too much out of them, shortening theircareers. Pride and anger had overtaken their powers of reason. Do not fall intosuch a trap; know when to stop. Do not soldier on out of frustration or pride. Toomuch is at stake.Finally, nothing in human affairs stays the same. Over time either yourefforts will tend to slow down--a kind of friction will build up, whether fromunexpected exterior events or from your own actions--or momentum will help tomove you forward. Wasting what you have will create friction, lowering yourenergy and morale. You are essentially slowing yourself down. Fightingeconomically, on the other hand, will build momentum. Think of it as findingyour level--a perfect balance between what you are capable of and the task athand. When the job you are doing is neither above nor below your talents but atyour level, you are neither exhausted nor bored and depressed. You suddenlyhave new energy and creativity. Fighting with perfect economy is like hittingthat level--less resistance in your path, greater energy unleashed. Oddly enough,knowing your limits will expand your limits; getting the most out of what youhave will let you have more. Authority: The value of a thing sometimes lies not in what one attainswith it but in what one pays for it--what it costs