to eﬀect this. To give one's whole conﬁdence is quite diﬀerent from giving one's regard. The closest intimacy has its exceptions, without which the laws of friendship would be broken. The friend always keeps one secret to himself, and even the son always hides something from his father. Some things are kept from one that are revealed to another and vice versa. In this way one reveals all and conceals all, by making a distinction among the persons with whom we are connected. cclxi Do not follow up a F olly . Many make an obligation out of a blunder, and because they have entered the wrong path think it proves their strength of character to go on in it. Within they regret their error, while outwardly they excuse it. At the beginning of their mistake they were regarded as inattentive, in the end as fools. Neither an unconsidered promise nor a mistaken resolution are really binding. Y et some continue in their folly and prefer to be constant fools. cclxii Be able to F orget. It is more a matter of luck than of skill. The things we remember best are those better for-gotten. Memory is not only unruly , leaving us in the lurch when most needed, but stupid as well, putting its nose into places where it is not wanted. In painful things it is active, but neglectful in recalling the pleasurable. V ery often the only remedy for the ill is to forget it, and all we forget is the remedy . Nevertheless one should cultivate good habits of memory , for it is capable of making existence a Paradise or an Inferno. The happy are an exception who enjoy innocently their simple happiness. cclxiii Many things of T aste one should not possess oneself. One enjoys them better if another's than if one's own. The owner has the good of them the ﬁrst day , for all the rest of the time they are for others. Y ou take a double enjoyment in other men's property , being without fear of spoiling it and with the pleasure of novelty . Everything tastes better for having been without it: even water from another's well tastes like nectar. Possession not alone hinders enjoyment: it increases annoyance whether you lend or keep. Y ou gain nothing except keeping things for or from others, and by this means gain more enemies than friends. cclxiv Have no careless Days. Fate loves to play tricks, and will heap up chances to catch us unawares. Our intelligence, prudence, and courage, even our beauty , must always be ready for trial. For their day of careless trust will be that of their discredit. Care always fails just when it was most wanted. It is thoughtlessness that trips us up into destruction. Accordingly it is a piece of military strategy to put perfection to its trial when unprepared. The days of parade are known and are allowed to pass by , but the day