forehead. Asbefitting her lineage, she was blessed with the craftiness of Metis and the warriormentality of Zeus. She was deemed by the Greeks to be the goddess of strategicwarfare, her favorite mortal and acolyte being the crafty Odysseus. Ares was thegod of war in its direct and brutal form. The Greeks despised Ares andworshipped Athena, who always fought with the utmost intelligence andsubtlety. Your interest in war is not the violence, the brutality, the waste of livesand resources, but the rationality and pragmatism it forces on us and the ideal of winning without bloodshed. The Ares figures of the world are actually quitestupid and easily misled. Using the wisdom of Athena, your goal is to turn theviolence and aggression of such types against them, making their brutality thecause of their downfall. Like Athena, you are always one step ahead, makingyour moves more indirect. Your goal is to blend philosophy and war, wisdomand battle, into an unbeatable blend. Elevate yourself above the battlefield. In war, strategy is the art ofcommanding the entire military operation. Tactics, on the other hand, is the skillof forming up the army for battle itself and dealing with the immediate needs ofthe battlefield. Most of us in life are tacticians, not strategists. We become soenmeshed in the conflicts we face that we can think only of how to get what wewant in the battle we are currently facing. To think strategically is difficult andunnatural. You may imagine you are being strategic, but in all likelihood you aremerely being tactical. To have the power that only strategy can bring, you mustbe able to elevate yourself above the battlefield, to focus on your long-termobjectives, to craft an entire campaign, to get out of the reactive mode that somany battles in life lock you into. Keeping your overall goals in mind, itbecomes much easier to decide when to fight and when to walk away. Thatmakes the tactical decisions of daily life much simpler and more rational.Tactical people are heavy and stuck in the ground; strategists are light on theirfeet and can see far and wide. Spiritualize your warfare. Every day you face battles--that is the reality for allcreatures in their struggle to survive. But the greatest battle of all is withyourself--your weaknesses, your emotions, your lack of resolution in seeingthings through to the end. You must declare unceasing war on yourself. As awarrior in life, you welcome combat and conflict as ways to prove yourself, tobetter your skills, to gain courage, confidence, and experience. Instead ofrepressing your doubts and fears, you must face them down, do battle with them.You want more challenges, and you invite more war. You are forging thewarrior's spirit, and only constant practice will lead you there. The 33 Strategies of War is a distillation of the timeless wisdom contained in the lessons and principles of warfare. The book is designed to arm you with practicalknowledge that will give you endless options and advantages in dealing with theelusive warriors that attack you in daily battle.Then back to