used by permission of Simon & Schuster Adult Publishing Group. The Art of War in World History: From Antiquity to the Nuclear Age, edited by Gerard Chaliand. Copyright (c) 1994 by The Regents of the University of California. By permission of the University of California Press. Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr. by Ron Chernow. Copyright (c) 1998 by Ron Chernow. Reprinted by permission of Random House, Inc. Clausewitz on Strategy: Inspiration and Insight from a Master Strategist, edited by Tiha von Ghyczy, Bolko von Oetinger, and Christopher Bassford (John Wiley & Sons). Copyright (c) 2001 by The Boston Consulting Group, Inc. Reprinted by permission of The Strategy Institute. On War by Carl von Clausewitz, edited and translated by Michael Howard and Peter Paret. Copyright (c) 1976 by Princeton University Press, renewed 2004 by Princeton University Press. Reprinted by permission of Princeton University Press. Command in War by Martin van Creveld. Copyright (c) 1985 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College. Reprinted by permission of Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Mass. The Generalship of Alexander the Great by J.F.C. Fuller. Copyright (c) 1960 by J.F.C. Fuller. Reprinted by permission of Rutgers University Press. Grant and Lee: A Study in Personality and Generalship by J.F.C. Fuller (Indiana University Press). Copyright (c) 1957 by J.F.C. Fuller. By permission of David Higham Associates. Julius Caesar: Man, Soldier and Tyrant by J.F.C. Fuller. Copyright (c) 1965 by J.F.C. Fuller. Reprinted by permission of Rutgers University Press. The Greco-Persian Wars by Peter Green. Copyright (c) 1996 by Peter Green. Reprinted by permission of University of California Press. Strategies of Psychotherapy by Jay Haley (Triangle Press). Copyright (c) 1967 by Jay Haley. By permission of the author. Masters of War: Classic Strategic Thought by Michael I. Handel (Frank Cass Publishers). Copyright (c) 1992 by Michael I. Handel. Reprinted by permission of Taylor & Francis Books. Iliad by Homer, translated by Stanley Lombardo. Copyright (c) 1997 by Hackett Publishing Company, Inc. Reprinted by permission of Hackett Publishing Company, Inc. All rights reserved. The Head Game: Baseball Seen from the Pitcher's Mound by Roger Kahn. Copyright (c) 2000 Hook Slide, Inc. Reprinted by permission of Harcourt, Inc. A World Restored: Metternich, Castlereagh and the Problems of Peace 1812-1822 by Henry Kissinger (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1957). Reprinted by permission of the publisher. The Anatomy of the Zulu Army: From Shaka to Cetshwayo 1818-1879 by Ian Knight. Copyright (c) 1995 by Ian Knight. Reprinted by permission of Greenhill Books, London. Samurai Zen: The Warrior Koans by Trevor Leggett (Routledge). Copyright (c) 2002 by The Trevor Leggett Adhyatma Yoga Trust. Reprinted by permission of Taylor & Francis Books. The Art of Maneuver: Maneuver-Warfare Theory and Airland Battle by Robert R. Leonhard. Copyright (c) 1991 by Robert R. Leonhard. Used by permission of Presidio Press, an imprint of The Ballantine Publishing Group, a division of Random House, Inc. Hitter: The Life and Turmoils of Ted Williams by Ed Linn. Copyright (c) 1993 by Edward A. Linn. Reprinted by permission of