strategists in cultures around the worldhad a similar epiphany: Why not deliberately distort the signs the enemy waslooking at? Why not mislead by playing with appearances? If the enemy iscounting our cooking fires, just as we are counting theirs, why not light more fires, or fewer, to create a false impression of our strength? If they are followingour army's every move, why not move it in deceptive patterns or send part of itin a direction as a decoy? If the enemy has sent spies and agents into our ranks,why not feed them false information? An enemy that thinks it knows our sizeand intentions, and is unaware that it has been misled, will act on its falseknowledge and commit all kinds of mistakes. It will move its men to fight anenemy that is not there. It will fight with shadows.Thinking in this way, these ancient strategists created the art of organizeddeception, an art that would eventually filter beyond warfare into politics andsociety at large. In essence, military deception is about subtly manipulating anddistorting signs of our identity and purpose to control the enemy's vision ofreality and get them to act on their misperceptions. It is the art of managingappearances, and it can create a decisive advantage for whichever side uses itbetter.The real impact of such a strategy is the dissipation of resources, the creationof both self-fulfilling and suicidal prophecies, and the destruction of truth andtrust. It maximizes confusion and disorder and destroys the organization'sresilience, adaptability, core values, and ability to respond. The key to such astrategy, says [Colonel John] Boyd, is less deception (the creation of a falseorder) and more ambiguity (confusion about reality itself). You want tocombine fact and fiction to create ambiguity for an adversary, for thecombination creates more problems, requires longer to sort out, and callsmore into question than merely inserting false information. As an example, herecalled the story of a group of Germans after the Normandy invasion whohad stolen some American uniforms and jeeps. They went around the Frenchcountryside changing all the road signs to confuse the allies as they advancedthrough the area. Soon, the Americans figured out that the directions hadbeen reversed and simply did the opposite of whatever the signs indicated.How much more effective it would have been if the Germans had changedonly a portion of the signs, a third to a half, and created even more problemsfor the Americans. Creating ambiguity about the signs' accuracy andprolonging the time it would take to discover the problem would have beenfar more effective than changing all the signs in a consistent fashion.THE MIND OF WAR, GRANT T. HAMMOND, 2001In war, where the stakes are so high, there is no moral taint in usingdeception. It is simply an added weapon to create an advantage, much as someanimals use camouflage and other tricks to help them survive. To refuse this weapon is a form of unilateral disarmament, giving the other side a clearer viewof the field--an advantage that can translate into victory. And there is no moralityor goodness in