ignorant, how much more the brave and wise? clxxxiii Do not hold your Views too ﬁrmly . Every fool is fully convinced, and every one fully persuaded is a fool: the more erroneous his judgment the more ﬁrmly he holds it. Even in cases of obvious certainty , it is ﬁne to yield: our reasons for holding the view cannot escape notice, our courtesy in yielding must be the more recognised. Our obstinacy loses more than our victory yields: that is not to champion truth but rather rudeness. There be some heads of iron most diﬃcult to turn: add caprice to obstinacy and the sum is a wearisome fool. Steadfastness should be for the will, not for the mind. Y et there are exceptions where one would fail twice, owning oneself wrong both in judgment and in the execution of it. clxxxiv Do not be Ceremonious. Even in a king aﬀectation in this was renowned for its eccentricity . To be punctilious is to be a bore, yet whole nations have this peculiarity . The garb of folly is woven out of such things. Such folk are worshippers of their own dignity , yet show how little it is justiﬁed since they fear that the least thing can destroy it. It is right to demand respect, but not to be considered a master of ceremonies. Y et it is true that a man to do without ceremonies must possess supreme qualities. Neither aﬀect nor despise etiquette: he cannot be great who is great at such little things. clxxxv Never stake your Credit on a single Cast; for if it miscarries the damage is irreparable. It may easy happen that a man should fail once, especially at ﬁrst: circumstances are not always favourable: hence they say , "Every dog has his day ." Always connect your second attempt with your ﬁrst: whether it succeed or fail, the ﬁrst will redeem the second. Always have resort to better means and appeal to more resources. Things depend on all sorts of chances. That is why the satisfaction of success is so rare. clxxxvi Recognise Faults, however high placed. Integrity cannot mistake vice even when clothed in brocade or perchance crowned with gold, but will not be able to hide its character for all that. Slavery does not lose its vileness, however it vaunt the nobility of its lord and master. Vices may stand in high place, but are low for all that. Men can see that many a great man has great faults, yet they do not see that he is not great because of them. The example of the great is so specious that it even glosses over viciousness, till it may so aﬀect those who ﬂatter it that they do not notice that what they gloss over in the great they abominate in the lower classes. clxxxvii Do pleasant Things Y ourself, unpleasant Things through Others. By the one course you gain goodwill, by the other you avoid hatred. A great