force ever assembled inEurope up to that point. Not even Napoleon could withstand an army more thantwice the size of his own, moving in on him from all sides.In the middle of September, Mack began his phase of the campaign byadvancing along the Danube to Ulm, in the heart of Bavaria. Having establishedhis camp there, he felt hugely satisfied. Mack loathed disorder and uncertainty.He tried to think of everything in advance, to come up with a clear plan andmake sure everyone stuck to it--"clockwork warfare," he called it. He thought hisplan was perfect; nothing could go wrong. Napoleon was doomed.Mack had once been captured and forced to spend three years in France,where he had studied Napoleon's style of war. A key Napoleonic strategy was tomake the enemy divide his forces, but now the trick was reversed: with troublein Italy, Napoleon could not afford to send more than 70,000 French troopsacross the Rhine into Germany and Bavaria. The moment he crossed the Rhine,the Austrians would know his intentions and would act to slow his march; hisarmy would need at least two months to reach Ulm and the Danube. By then theAustrians would already have linked up with the Russians and swept through theAlsace and France. The strategy was as close to foolproof as any Mack had everknown. He savored the role he would play in destroying Napoleon, for he hatedthe man and all he represented--undisciplined soldiers, the fomenting ofrevolution throughout Europe, the constant threat to the status quo. For Mack the Russians could not arrive in Ulm too soon.We find our attention drawn repeatedly to what one might call "theorganizational dimension of strategy." Military organizations, and the statesthat develop them, periodically assess their own ability to handle militarythreats. When they do so they tend to look at that which can be quantified: thenumber of troops, the quantities of ammunition, the readiness rates of keyequipment, the amount of transport, and so on. Rarely, however, do they lookat the adequacy of their organization as such, and particularly high levelorganization, to handle these challenges. Yet as Pearl Harbor and other casessuggest, it is in the deficiency of organizations that the embryo of misfortunedevelops.MILITARY MISFORTUNES: THE ANATOMY OF FAILURE IN WAR, ELIOTA. COHEN AND JOHN GOOCH, 1990Near the end of September, however, Mack began to sense somethingwrong. To the west of Ulm lay the Black Forest, between his own position andthe French border. Suddenly scouts were telling him that a French army waspassing through the forest in his direction. Mack was bewildered: it made thebest sense for Napoleon to cross the Rhine into Germany farther to the north,where his passage east would be smoother and harder to stop. But now he wasyet again doing the unexpected, funneling an army through a narrow opening inthe Black Forest and sending it straight at Mack. Even if this move were just afeint, Mack had to defend his position, so he sent part of his army west into theBlack Forest to stem the French advance long enough for the