people can also inspire a kind of awe and respect, forsecretly we all desire access to the irrational seas churning inside us. In ancienttimes the insane were seen as divinely possessed; a residue of that attitudesurvives. The greatest generals have all had a touch of divine, strategic madness.The secret is to keep this streak under control. Upon occasion you allowyourself to operate in a way that is deliberately irrational, but less is more--dothis too much and you may be locked up. You will in any case frighten peoplemore by showing an occasional flash of insanity, just enough to keep everyone off balance and wondering what will come next. As an alternative, act somewhatrandomly, as if what you did were determined by a roll of the dice. Randomnessis thoroughly disturbing to humans. Think of this behavior as a kind of therapy--a chance to indulge occasionally in the irrational, as a relief from the oppressiveneed to always seem normal. Keep the wheels in constant motion. The unconventional is generally theprovince of the young, who are not comfortable with conventions and take greatpleasure in flouting them. The danger is that as we age, we need more comfortand predictability and lose our taste for the unorthodox. This is how Napoleondeclined as a strategist: he came to rely more on the size of his army and on itssuperiority in weapons than on novel strategies and fluid maneuvers. He lost histaste for the spirit of strategy and succumbed to the growing weight of hisaccumulating years. You must fight the psychological aging process even morethan the physical one, for a mind full of stratagems, tricks, and fluid maneuverswill keep you young. Make a point of breaking the habits you have developed, ofacting in a way that is contrary to how you have operated in the past; practice akind of unconventional warfare on your own mind. Keep the wheels turning andchurning the soil so that nothing settles and clumps into the conventional.No one is so brave that he is not disturbed by something unexpected.--Julius Caesar (100-44 B.C.)HISTORICAL EXAMPLES1. In 219 B.C., Rome decided it had had enough of the Carthaginians, who hadbeen stirring up trouble in Spain, where both city-states had valuable colonies.The Romans declared war on Carthage and prepared to send an army to Spain,where the enemy forces were led by the twenty-eight-year-old general Hannibal.Before the Romans could reach Hannibal, though, they received the startlingnews that he was coming to them--he had already marched east, crossing themost treacherous part of the Alps into northern Italy. Because Rome had neverimagined that an enemy would attack from that direction, there were nogarrisons in the area, and Hannibal's march south toward Rome was unimpeded.His army was relatively small; only some 26,000 soldiers had survived thecrossing of the Alps. The Romans and their allies could field an army of close to 750,000 men; their legions were the most disciplined and feared fighters in theworld, and they had already defeated Carthage in the First Punic War, twenty-odd years earlier. But an alien