But theAmericans had the advantage in two subtly critical aspects. First, thehydraulic controls allowed for faster transition from one maneuver toanother. Second, the cockpit allowed for a wide field of view for the pilot. Theresult was that the American pilots could more rapidly observe and orient tothe tactical situation moment by moment. Then, having decided what to donext, they could quickly change maneuvers. In battle, this ability to rapidlypass through the observation-orientation-decision-action loop (the Boydcycle) gave the American pilots a slight time advantage. If one views adogfight as a series of Boyd cycles, one sees that the Americans wouldrepeatedly gain a time advantage each cycle, until the enemy's actionsbecome totally inappropriate to the changing situations. Hence, the Americanpilots were able to "out-Boyd cycle" the enemy, thus outmaneuvering him andfinally shooting him down. Colonel Boyd and others then began to questionwhether this pattern might be applicable to other forms of warfare as well.THE ART OF MANEUVER, ROBERT R. LEONHARD, 1991 In the days to come, Cohn was going to regret his decision.Three stars were cast for The Awful Truth--Cary Grant, Irene Dunne, andRalph Bellamy. All had problems with their roles as written in the script, none ofthem wanted to do the picture, and, as time went by, their unhappiness onlygrew. Revisions to the script began to come in: McCarey had apparently junkedthe original and was starting over, but his creative process was peculiar--hewould sit in a parked car on Hollywood Boulevard with the screenwriter VinaDelmar and verbally improvise scenes with her. Later, when shooting began, hewould walk on the beach and scribble the next day's setups on torn pieces ofbrown paper. His style of directing was equally upsetting to the actors. One day,for instance, he asked Dunne whether she played the piano and Bellamy whetherhe could sing. Both answered, "Not very well," but McCarey's next step was tohave Dunne play "Home on the Range" as best she could while Bellamy sang offkey. The actors did not enjoy this rather humiliating exercise, but McCarey wasdelighted and filmed the entire song. None of this was in the script, but all of itended up in the film.Sometimes the actors would wait on set while McCarey would mess aroundon the piano, then suddenly come up with an idea for what to shoot that day. Onemorning Cohn visited the set and witnessed this odd process. "I hired you tomake a great comedy so I could show up Frank Capra. The only one who's goingto laugh at this picture is Capra!" he exclaimed. Cohn was disgusted andbasically wrote the whole thing off. His irritation grew daily, but he wascontractually bound to pay Dunne forty thousand dollars for the film, whether itwas shot or not. He could not fire McCarey at this point without creating greaterproblems, nor could he have him go back to the original script, since McCareyhad already begun shooting and only he seemed to know where the film wasgoing.Yet as the days went on, the actors began to see some method in McCarey'smadness. He would