is not what you are doing but the fact that it comes late. Youhave begun to think about morale only after it has become an issue, not before.That is your mistake. Learn from history's great motivators and military leaders:the way to get soldiers to work together and maintain morale is to make themfeel part of a group that is fighting for a worthy cause. That distracts them fromtheir own interests and satisfies their human need to feel part of somethingbigger than they are. The more they think of the group, the less they think ofthemselves. They soon begin to link their own success to the group's; their owninterests and the larger interests coincide. In this kind of army, people know thatselfish behavior will disgrace them in the eyes of their companions. Theybecome attuned to a kind of group conscience.Morale is contagious: put people in a cohesive, animated group and theynaturally catch that spirit. If they rebel or revert to selfish behavior, they areeasily isolated. You must establish this dynamic the minute you become thegroup's leader; it can only come from the top--that is, from you.The ability to create the right group dynamic, to maintain the collectivespirit, is known in military language as "man management." History's greatgenerals--Alexander the Great, Hannibal, Napoleon--were all masters of the art,which for military men is more than simply important: in battle it can be thedeciding issue, a matter of life and death. In war, Napoleon once said, "Themoral is to the physical as three to one." He meant that his troops' fighting spiritwas crucial in the outcome of the battle: with motivated soldiers he could beat anarmy three times the size of his own.To create the best group dynamic and prevent destructive morale problems,follow these eight crucial steps culled from the writings and experiences of themasters of the art. It is important to follow as many of the steps as possible; noneis less important than any other. Step 1: Unite your troops around a cause. Make them fight for an idea. Nowmore than ever, people have a hunger to believe in something. They feel an emptiness, which, left alone, they might try to fill with drugs or spiritual fads,but you can take advantage of it by channeling it into a cause you can convincethem is worth fighting for. Bring people together around a cause and you create amotivated force.What stronger breast-plate than a heart untainted! Thrice is he arm'd thathath his quarrel just, And he but naked, though lock'd up in steel, Whoseconscience with injustice is corrupted.KING HENRY V, WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, 1564-1616There are always moments when the commander's place is not back with hisstaff but up with the troops. It is sheer nonsense to say that maintenance ofthe men's morale is the job of the battalion commander alone. The higher therank, the greater the effect of the example. The men tend to feel no kind ofcontact with a commander who, they know, is sitting somewhere inheadquarters. What they want is what might be termed a physical