extends to the group at large. People follow procedureswithout really knowing why, simply because these procedures may have workedin the past, and they become highly defensive if their ways are brought intoquestion. They become hooked on a certain idea and they hold on to it, even ifthat idea has been proven repeatedly to be wrong. Look at the history of science:whenever a new idea or way of looking at the world is introduced, despite all ofthe proofs behind it, those who are entrenched in the old ways will fight to thedeath to preserve them. It is often against human nature, particularly as we getolder, to consider alternative ways of thinking or doing things.People do not advertise their rigidity. You will only trip up against it if youtry to introduce a new idea or procedure. Some in the group—the hyper-rigid—will become irritable, even panicky at the thought of any kind of change. If youpress your case with logic and reason, you will tend to make them even moredefensive and resistant. If you are an adventurous, open-minded type, your veryspirit will prove disruptive and upsetting. If you are not aware of the dangers ofbutting up against this fear of the new, you will create all sorts of hiddenenemies, who will resort to anything to conserve the old order. It is useless tofight against people’s rigid ways, or to argue against their irrational concepts.You will only waste time and make yourself rigid in the process. The beststrategy is to simply accept rigidity in others, outwardly displaying deference totheir need for order. On your own, however, you must work to maintain youropen spirit, letting go of bad habits and deliberately cultivating new ideas.Self-obsessiveness: In the work environment, we almost inevitably thinkfirst and foremost of ourselves. The world is a harsh and competitive place, andwe must look after our own interests. Even when we act for the greater good, we are often unconsciously motivated by the desire to be liked by others and to haveour image enhanced in the process. There is no shame in this. But because beingself-interested does not make us feel or appear noble, many people go out oftheir way to disguise their self-interest. Often those who are the most self-absorbed will surround their actions with a moral or saintly aura, or will make ashow of supporting all of the right causes. Confused by these appearances, whenit is time to ask such people for assistance, you will often appeal to their sense ofgratitude, their seemingly charitable nature, or their friendly feelings. You arethen frustrated and disappointed when they politely decline to help you, or putyou off long enough that you give up. Of course, they never reveal the realreason for this behavior—that there is nothing in it for themselves.Instead of putting yourself in this position, you must understand and acceptthis Deadly Reality. When it is time to ask for a favor or help, you must thinkfirst of appealing to people’s self-interest in some way. (You should apply this toeveryone, no matter their