woke up in a sweat. It suddenly struck him: death was staring the Greeks inthe face, yet they lay around moaning, despairing, arguing. The problem was intheir heads. Fighting for money rather than for a purpose or cause, unable todistinguish between friend and foe, they had gotten lost. The barrier betweenthem and home was not rivers or mountains or the Persian army but their ownmuddled state of mind. Xenophon didn't want to die in this disgraceful way. Hewas no military man, but he knew philosophy and the way men think, and hebelieved that if the Greeks concentrated on the enemies who wanted to kill them,they would become alert and creative. If they focused on the vile treachery of thePersians, they would grow angry, and their anger would motivate them. Theyhad to stop being confused mercenaries and go back to being Greeks, the polaropposite of the faithless Persians. What they needed was clarity and direction.Xenophon decided to be Zeus's lightning bolt, waking the men up and illuminating their way. He called a meeting of all the surviving officers andstated his plan: We will declare war without parley on the Persians--no morethoughts of bargaining or debate. We will waste no more time on argument oraccusation among ourselves; every ounce of our energy will be spent on thePersians. We will be as inventive and inspired as our ancestors at Marathon, whofought off a vastly larger Persian army. We will burn our wagons, live off theland, move fast. We will not for one second lay down our arms or forget thedangers around us. It is us or them, life or death, good or evil. Should any mantry to confuse us with clever talk or with vague ideas of appeasement, we willdeclare him too stupid and cowardly to be on our side and we will drive himaway. Let the Persians make us merciless. We must be consumed with one idea:getting home alive.The officers knew that Xenophon was right. The next day a Persian officercame to see them, offering to act as an ambassador between them and Ataxerxes;following Xenophon's counsel, he was quickly and rudely driven away. It wasnow war and nothing else.Roused to action, the Greeks elected leaders, Xenophon among them, andbegan the march home. Forced to depend on their wits, they quickly learned toadapt to the terrain, to avoid battle, to move at night. They successfully eludedthe Persians, beating them to a key mountain pass and moving through it beforethey could be caught. Although many enemy tribes still lay between them andGreece, the dreaded Persian army was now behind them. It took several years,but almost all of them returned to Greece alive.Political thought and political instinct prove themselves theoretically andpractically in the ability to distinguish friend and enemy. The high points ofpolitics are simultaneously the moments in which the enemy is, in concreteclarity, recognized as the enemy.CARL SCHMITT, 1888-1985InterpretationLife is battle and struggle, and you will constantly find yourself facing badsituations, destructive relationships, dangerous engagements. How you confrontthese difficulties will determine your fate. As