tofeel more confident in your own judgment. Understand: we tend to overestimateother people's abilities--after all, they're trying hard to make it look as if theyknew what they were doing--and we tend to underestimate our own. You mustcompensate for this by trusting yourself more and others less.It is important to remember, though, that being self-reliant does not meanburdening yourself with petty details. You must be able to distinguish betweensmall matters that are best left to others and larger issues that require yourattention and care. Suffer fools gladly. John Churchill, the Duke of Marlborough, is one of history'smost successful generals. A genius of tactics and strategy, he had tremendouspresence of mind. In the early eighteenth century, Churchill was often the leaderof an alliance of English, Dutch, and German armies against the mighty forces ofFrance. His fellow generals were timid, indecisive, narrow-minded men. Theybalked at the duke's bold plans, saw dangers everywhere, were discouraged atthe slightest setback, and promoted their own country's interests at the expenseof the alliance. They had no vision, no patience: they were fools.On a famous occasion during the civil war, Caesar tripped whendisembarking from a ship on the shores of Africa and fell flat on his face.With his talent for improvisation, he spread out his arms and embraced theearth as a symbol of conquest. By quick thinking he turned a terrible omen offailure into one of victory.CICERO: THE LIFE AND TIMES OF ROME'S GREATEST POLITICIAN,ANTHONY EVERITT, 2001 The duke, an experienced and subtle courtier, never confronted hiscolleagues directly; he did not force his opinions on them. Instead he treatedthem like children, indulging them in their fears while cutting them out of hisplans. Occasionally he threw them a bone, doing some minor thing they hadsuggested or pretending to worry about a danger they had imagined. But henever let himself get angry or frustrated; that would have ruined his presence ofmind, undermining his ability to lead the campaign. He forced himself to staypatient and cheerful. He knew how to suffer fools gladly.We mean the ability to keep one's head at times of exceptional stress andviolent emotion.... But it might be closer to the truth to assume that the facultyknown as self-control--the gift of keeping calm even under the greatest stress--is rooted in temperament. It is itself an emotion which serves to balance thepassionate feelings in strong characters without destroying them, and it is thisbalance alone that assures the dominance of the intellect. The counter-weightwe mean is simply the sense of human dignity, the noblest pride and deepestneed of all: the urge to act rationally at all times. Therefore we would arguethat a strong character is one that will not be unbalanced by the mostpowerful emotions.ON WAR, CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ, 1780-1831Understand: you cannot be everywhere or fight everyone. Your time andenergy are limited, and you must learn how to preserve them. Exhaustion andfrustration can ruin your presence of mind. The world is full of fools--peoplewho cannot wait to get results, who change with the wind, who can't see pasttheir noses. You encounter