The evasive maneuvers he executed with the first MiGastounded his superiors—they were so fast and effective. His awareness duringthe dogfight must have been exceptionally keen; he had circled to his opponent’stail in ever-faster cycles, never losing sight of the desert floor they wereapproaching. How could he explain all of these maneuvers? He could hardlyremember them. All he knew was that in the moment he hadn’t been remember them. All he knew was that in the moment he hadn’t beenexperiencing fear, but rather an intense adrenalin rush that made his body andmind operate in total harmony, with a kind of thinking that moved inmilliseconds and was too fast for him to analyze.For three days after the encounter he could not sleep, the adrenalin stillcoursing through his veins. It made him realize that the body possesses latentphysiological powers—unleashed in such dramatic moments—that elevate themind to an even higher level of focus. Rodriguez would go on to have one morekill in Desert Storm, and another in the 1999 Kosovo campaign, more than anypilot in recent combat, earning him the nickname the Last American Ace. In our daily, conscious activity we generally experience a separation between themind and the body. We think about our bodies and our physical actions. Animalsdo not experience this division. When we start to learn any skill that has aphysical component, this separation becomes even more apparent. We have tothink about the various actions involved, the steps we have to follow. We areaware of our slowness and of how our bodies respond in an awkward way. Atcertain points, as we improve, we have glimpses of how this process couldfunction differently, of how it might feel to practice the skill fluidly, with themind not getting in the way of the body. With such glimpses, we know what toaim for. If we take our practice far enough the skill becomes automatic, and wehave the sensation that the mind and the body are operating as one.If we are learning a complex skill, such as flying a jet in combat, we mustmaster a series of simple skills, one on top of the other. Each time one skillbecomes automatic, the mind is freed up to focus on the higher one. At the veryend of this process, when there are no more simple skills to learn, the brain hasassimilated an incredible amount of information, all of which has becomeinternalized, part of our nervous system. The whole complex skill is now insideus and at our fingertips. We are thinking, but in a different way—with the bodyand mind completely fused. We are transformed. We possess a form ofintelligence that allows us to approximate the instinctual power of animals, butonly through a conscious, deliberate, and extended practice.In our culture we tend to denigrate practice. We want to imagine that greatfeats occur naturally—that they are a sign of someone’s genius or superiortalent. Getting to a high level of achievement through practice seems so banal, souninspiring. Besides, we don’t want to have to think of the 10,000 to 20,000hours that go