as a brigadier general in the Union army. He had nomilitary experience, but the Union needed leadership of any kind it could get,and if he proved himself in battle, he could rise fast. He saw this army positionas his path to the presidency.First of all, a complete definition of the technical term "one-upmanship"would fill, and in fact has filled, a rather large encyclopedia. It can bedefined briefly here as the art of placing a person "one-down." The term"one-down" is technically defined as that psychological state which exists inan individual who is not "one-up" on another person.... To phrase these termsin popular language, at the risk of losing scientific rigor, it can be said that in any human relationship (and indeed among other mammals) one person isconstantly maneuvering to imply that he is in a "superior position" to theother person in the relationship. This "superior position" does not necessarilymean superior in social status or economic position; many servants aremasters at putting their employers one-down. Nor does it imply intellectualsuperiority as any intellectual knows who has been put "one-down" by amuscular garbage collector in a bout of Indian wrestling. "Superior position"is a relative term which is continually being defined and redefined by theongoing relationship. Maneuvers to achieve superior position may be crudeor they may be infinitely subtle. For example, one is not usually in a superiorposition if he must ask another person for something. Yet he can ask for it insuch a way that he is implying, "This is, of course, what I deserve."THE STRATEGIES OF PSYCHOTHERAPY, JAY HALEY, 1963McClernand's first post was at the head of a brigade in Missouri under theoverall command of General Ulysses S. Grant. Within a year he was promoted tomajor general, still under Grant. But this was not good enough for McClernand,who needed a stage for his talents, a campaign to run and get credit for. Granthad talked to him of his plans for capturing the Confederate fort at Vicksburg, onthe Mississippi River. The fall of Vicksburg, according to Grant, could be theturning point in the war. McClernand decided to sell a march on Vicksburg as hisown idea and use it as a springboard for his career.In September 1862, on leave in Washington, D.C., McClernand paid a visitto President Lincoln. He was "tired of furnishing brains" for Grant's army, hesaid; he had proved himself on the battlefield and was a better strategist thanGrant, who was a little too fond of his whiskey. McClernand proposed to goback to Illinois, where he was well known and could recruit a large army. Thenhe would follow the Mississippi River south to Vicksburg and capture the fort.Vicksburg was technically in Grant's department, but Lincoln was not surethe general could lead the audacious attack necessary. He took McClernand tosee Secretary of War Edwin Stanton, another former lawyer, who commiseratedwith his two visitors on the difficulties of dealing with military brass. Stantonlistened to and liked McClernand's plan. That October the onetime congressmanleft Washington with confidential orders, giving him approval for his march onVicksburg.