the evening....... If, for instance, someone is beingreally funny or witty and there is a really pleasant atmosphere of hearty andexplosive laughter, then (a) join in the laughter at first. Next (b) graduallybecome silent. Finally (c) at some pause in the conversation be overheardwhispering, "Oh for some real talk."THE COMPLETE UPMANSHIP, STEPHEN POTTER 1950 The easiest types to one-up are those who are rigid. Being rigid does notnecessarily mean being humorless or charmless, but it does mean beingintolerant of anything that breaks their code of acceptable behavior. Being thetarget of some anarchic or unconventional antic will trigger an overreaction thatmakes them look sour, vindictive, unleaderlike. The calm exterior of the matureadult is momentarily blown away, revealing something rather peevish andpuerile.Do not discourage such targets from getting personal: the more bitterly theyprotest and criticize you, the worse they look. They forget that the real issue ishow they are perceived by the people around them or, in an electoral race, by thepublic. Inflexible to the core, they can be induced to make mistake after mistakewith the slightest push. 5. In 1939, Joan Crawford (1904-77) talked her way into a relatively minor rolein the film The Women: the lower-class perfume salesgirl who steals the husbandof an elegant woman played by Norma Shearer. Crawford and Shearer were alsobitter rivals in real life. Shearer was the wife of the movie producer IrvingThalberg, who always managed to get her the best parts. Crawford hated her forthat, and for her haughty manner. Thalberg had died in 1936, but, to Crawford'sdisgust, the studio was still pampering Shearer. Everyone in Hollywood knew oftheir mutual dislike and was waiting for the showdown. But Crawford was theconsummate professional on the set, and she kept matters civil.The Crawford and Shearer characters in The Women share only one scene:the climax of the movie, when Shearer finally confronts Crawford about theaffair with her husband. The rehearsal went well, as did the master shot showingthe two actresses performing together. Then it came time for close-ups. Ofcourse Norma Shearer went first. Crawford sat in a chair off camera, deliveringher lines to Shearer. (Many actors would have an assistant or the director feedthe lines while they retired to their dressing rooms, but Crawford always insistedon reading them herself.)Crawford was knitting an afghan at the time, and as she said her lines, sheknitted furiously, then stopped when it was time for Shearer to respond. Shenever looked Shearer in the eye. The needles made a loud clicking sound thatbegan to drive Shearer crazy. Straining to stay polite, Shearer said, "Joan,darling, I find your knitting distracting." Pretending not to hear, Crawford keptknitting. Finally Shearer, a woman famous for her elegance, lost control: shescreamed at Crawford, ordering her off the set and back to her dressing room. As Crawford walked away, still not looking at Shearer, the film's director, GeorgeCukor, ran to her side, but Shearer commanded him to come back. Her voice hada bitter tone that no one there had heard before and few would forget--it was sounlike her. Or