men and women, tight-knit, dedicated,self-motivated, and spread out. These cells should penetrate the enemy campitself. This was how Mao Tse-tung organized his army in the ChineseRevolution, infiltrating the Nationalist side, causing sabotage in the cities,leaving the deceptive and terrifying impression that his men were everywhere.When U.S. Air Force Colonel John Boyd joined the Pentagon in the late1960s to help develop jet fighters, he faced a reactionary bureaucracy dominatedby commercial interests rather than military ones. The Pentagon was in dire needof reform, but a traditional bureaucratic war--an attempt to convince key staffdirectly and frontally of the importance of his cause--would have been ahopeless venture: Boyd would simply have been isolated and funneled out of thesystem. He decided to wage a guerrilla war instead. His first and most importantstep was to organize cells within the Pentagon. These cells were small and hardto detect, giving the reactionaries nothing to hit at when they realized they werein a war. Boyd recruited his guerrillas from among those dissatisfied with thestatus quo, especially the young--young people are always more receptive tochange, and they love this style of fighting.With his cells in place, Boyd had constant intelligence as to what was goingon in the Pentagon and could anticipate the timing and content of the attacks onhim. He could also use these cells to spread his influence through word ofmouth, infiltrating ever deeper into the bureaucracy. The main point is to avoidan organization's formal channels and tendency for bigness and concentration.Opt for mobility instead; make your army light and clandestine. You can alsoattach your guerrilla cells to a regular army, much as the Russian Cossackssupported the armies of Alexander. This mix of conventional and unconventionalcan prove highly effective.Once you have organized your cells, you must find a way to lure the enemyinto attacking you. In war this is generally accomplished by retreating, then turning to strike at the enemy with constant small raids and ambushes thatcannot be ignored. This was the classic strategy pursued by T. E. Lawrence inArabia during World War I. The nineteenth-century American financial wizardJay Gould, a man who fought many guerrilla wars in his business life, didsomething similar in his daily battles. His goal was to create maximum disorderin the markets--disorder he could anticipate and exploit. One of his mainadversaries was the highly aggressive mogul Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt,whom he engaged in a war for control of the Erie Railroad in the late 1860s.Gould maintained an incredibly elusive presence; he would work back channelsto gain influence in, for example, the New York State legislature, which thenenacted laws undermining Vanderbilt's interests. The furious Vanderbilt wouldgo after Gould and counterattack, but Gould would by then have moved on tosome other unexpected target. To deprive Vanderbilt of the strategic initiative,Gould upset him, fed his competitive and aggressive instincts, then goaded himfurther by giving him no target to counterattack.Gould also made skillful use of the media. He might plant a newspaperarticle that would suddenly sideswipe Vanderbilt, portraying him as an evilmonopolist; Vanderbilt would have to respond, but that would