was told that he spoke the dying language as well as anynative.With only a poor reproduction of the Rosetta stone at his disposal, he beganto attack it with various hypotheses, all of which were later proven quite wrong.Unlike the others, however, Champollion’s enthusiasm never dampened. Theproblem for him was the political turmoil of his time. An avowed son of theFrench Revolution, he finally came to support the cause of Napoleon just as theemperor lost power. When King Louis XVIII came to the throne as the newFrench king, Champollion’s Napoleonic sympathies cost him his job as aprofessor. Years of grinding poverty and ill health forced him to abandon hisinterest in the Rosetta stone. But in 1821, finally rehabilitated by the governmentand living in Paris, Champollion returned to the quest with a renewed energy anddetermination.Having been away from the study of hieroglyphics for some time, he cameback with a fresh perspective. The problem, he decided, was that others wereapproaching decipherment as if it involved some kind of mathematical code. ButChampollion, who spoke dozens of languages and could read many deadlanguages, understood that languages evolve in a haphazard manner, influencedby the influx of new groups into a society and shaped by the passage of time.They are not mathematical formulas, but living, evolving organisms. They arecomplex. He now approached the hieroglyphs in a more holistic fashion. Hisgoal was to figure out exactly what kind of script it was—pictograms (literallythe picture representing the thing), ideograms (the picture representing ideas),some kind of phonetic alphabet, or perhaps a mix of all three.With this in mind, he tried something that strangely enough no one hadthought of—he made a comparison of the number of words in the Greek andhieroglyphic sections. He counted 486 words in the Greek text, and 1,419hieroglyphic signs. Champollion had been operating under the assumption that hieroglyphic signs. Champollion had been operating under the assumption thathieroglyphs were ideograms, each symbol representing an idea or word. Withsuch a discrepancy in number, this assumption was no longer possible. He thentried to identify groups of hieroglyphic symbols that would constitute words, butthis numbered only 180. He could find no clear numerical relationship betweenthe two, and so the only possible conclusion from all of this was thathieroglyphic writing is a mixed system of ideograms, pictograms, and a phoneticalphabet, making it more complex than anyone had imagined.He next decided to attempt something that anyone else would have thoughtinsane and useless—to apply his visual powers to the demotic and hieroglyphictexts, looking exclusively at the shapes of the letters or signs. In doing so hebegan to see patterns and correspondences—for instance, a particular sign in thehieroglyph, such as the depiction of a bird, had a rough equivalent in demotic,the image of the bird becoming less realistic and more like an abstract shape.Because of his incredible photographic memory, he could identify hundreds ofthese equivalences between symbols, although he could not say what any one ofthem meant. They remained merely images.Armed with this knowledge, he went on the attack. On the Rosetta stone, heexamined the