assertive phrases, such as “You are eating food. That food smells good.”These exceptions to Universal Grammar began to pile up as he looked for them.At the same time, the Pirahã culture began to make increasing sense to him, At the same time, the Pirahã culture began to make increasing sense to him,which altered his conception of their language. For instance, one time he learneda new word that a Pirahã explained to him meant “what is in your head whenyou sleep.” The word then means to dream. But the word was used with aspecial intonation that Pirahã use when they are referring to a new experience.Questioning further, he saw that to them dreaming is simply a different form ofexperience, not at all a fiction. A dream is as real and immediate to them asanything they encounter in waking life. With more and more of these examples,a theory began to stir in his head, one that he would call the ImmediateExperience Principle (IEP). What this means is that for the Pirahã all thatconcerns them are things that can be experienced in the here and now, or thatrelate to something that someone personally has experienced in the very recentpast.This would account for the peculiarities of their language—colors andnumbers are abstractions that do not fit IEP. Instead of recursion, they havesimple declarative statements on what they have seen. His theory would accountfor their lack of material culture, or of creation myths and stories that refer tosomething in the past. They had developed this form of culture as the perfectadaptation to their environment and needs; it made them profoundly immersed inthe present and remarkably happy. It helped them to psychologically transcendthe difficulties of their environment. Because they had no need for anythingbeyond their immediate experience, they had no words for such things. Everett’stheory was the fruit of years and years of deep immersion in their culture. As itcame together in his mind, it explained so many things. It could not have beenseen or understood in the course of a few months or years observing them fromthe outside.The conclusion that he drew from this, one that would provoke muchcontroversy within the field of linguistics, is that culture plays an enormous rolein the development of language, and that languages are more different than wehave imagined. Although there are certainly common aspects to all humanlanguages, there can be no universal grammar that overrides the relevance ofculture. Such a conclusion, he determined, can only come through years ofintense fieldwork. Those who make assumptions from far away, based onuniversal theories, do not see the whole picture. It takes great time and effort tosee the differences, to participate in a culture. And because it is so much harderto perceive these differences, culture has not been given its due as one of theprimary shaping forces for language and for how we experience the world.The deeper he immersed himself into Pirahã culture, the more it changedhim. He not only grew disenchanted with the top-down form of research in him. He not only grew