an unbalanced judgment, and if it is not altogether based on the false, it is certainly founded on the uncertain, and risks the weightier matters of life. cxliv Begin with Another's to end with your Own. 'Tis a politic means to your end. Even in heavenly matters Christian teachers lay stress on this holy cunning. It is a weighty piece of dissimulation, for the foreseen advantages serve as a lure to inﬂuence the other's will. His aﬀair seems to be in train when it is really only leading the way for another's. One should never advance unless under cover, especially where the ground is dangerous. Likewise with persons who always say No at ﬁrst, it is useful to ward oﬀ this blow , because the diﬃculty of conceding much more does not occur to them when your version is presented to them. This advice belongs to the rule about second thoughts [xiii], which covers the most subtle manoeuvres of life. cxlv Do not show your wounded Finger , for everything will knock up against it; nor complain about it, for malice always aims where weakness can be injured. It is no use to be vexed: being the butt of the talk will only vex you the more. Ill-will searches for wounds to irritate, aims darts to try the temper, and tries a thousand ways to sting to the quick. The wise never own to being hit, or disclose any evil, whether personal or hereditary . For even Fate sometimes likes to wound us where we are most tender. It always mortiﬁes wounded ﬂesh. Never therefore disclose the source of mortiﬁcation or of joy , if you wish the one to cease, the other to endure. cxlvi Look into the Interior of Things. Things are generally other than they seem, and ignorance that never looks beneath the rind becomes disabused when you show the kernel. Lies always come ﬁrst, dragging fools along by their irreparable vulgarity . T ruth always lags last, limping along on the arm of Time. The wise therefore reserve for it the other half of that power which the common mother has wisely given in duplicate. Deceit is very superﬁcial, and the superﬁcial therefore easily fall into it. Prudence lives retired within its recesses, visited only by sages and wise men. cxlvii Do not be Inaccessible. None is so perfect that he does not need at times the advice of others. He is an in-corrigible ass who will never listen to any one. Even the most surpassing intellect should ﬁnd a place for friendly counsel. Sovereignty itself must learn to lean. There are some that are incorrigible simply because they are : they fall to ruin because none dares to extricate them. The highest should have the door open for friendship; it may prove the gate of help. A friend must be free to advise, and even to upbraid, without feeling embarrassed. Our satisfaction in him and our trust in his steadfast faith give him that power.