a kind of strategic combat, and inthis instance he decided to transfer his skills and style of warfare to the junglesof the Pentagon. He would intimidate, discourage, and outsmart his opponents.Boyd believed that a streamlined jet fighter of the kind he was designingcould outperform any plane in the world. But contractors hated his design,because it was inexpensive--it did not highlight the technology they were tryingto peddle. Meanwhile Boyd's colleagues in the Pentagon had their own petprojects. Competing for the same pot of money, they did everything they couldto sabotage or transform his design.Boyd developed a defense: Outwardly he looked a little dumb. He woreshabby suits, smoked a nasty cigar, kept a wild look in his eye. He seemed to bejust another emotional fighter pilot, promoted too fast and too soon. But behind the scenes he mastered every detail. He made sure he knew more than hisopponents: he could quote statistics, studies, and engineering theories to supporthis own project and poke holes through theirs. Contractors would show up inmeetings with glossy presentations delivered by their top engineers; they wouldmake fantastic claims to dazzle the generals. Boyd would listen politely, seemimpressed, and then suddenly, without warning, he would go on the offensive--deflating their optimistic claims, showing in detail that the numbers did not addup, revealing the hype and the fakery. The more they protested, the more viciousBoyd got, bit by bit tearing their project to shreds.Blindsided by a man they had grossly underestimated, time and again thecontractors would leave these meetings vowing revenge. But what could theydo? He had already shot down their numbers and turned their proposals to mush.Caught in the act of oversell, they had lost all credibility. They would have toaccept their defeat. Soon they learned to avoid Boyd: instead of trying tosabotage him, they hoped he would fail on his own.In 1974, Boyd and his team had finished the design of a jet they had beenworking on, and it seemed certain to be approved. But part of Boyd's strategyhad been to build up a network of allies in different parts of the Pentagon, andthese men told him that there was a group of three-star generals who hated theproject and were planning his defeat. They would let him brief the variousofficials in the chain of command, all of whom would give him their go-ahead;then there would be a final meeting with the generals, who would scuttle theproject as they had planned to all along. Having gotten that far, though, theproject would look as if it had been given a fair hearing.In addition to his network of allies, Boyd always tried to make sure he had atleast one powerful supporter. This was usually easy to find: in a politicalenvironment like the Pentagon, there was always some general or other powerfulofficial who was disgusted with the system and was happy to be Boyd's secretprotector. Now Boyd called on his most powerful ally, Secretary of DefenseJames Schlesinger, and won Schlesinger's personal approval for the project.Then, at the meeting with the generals, whom