become like a child—dependent on thesepeople for survival, participating in their daily activities, entering their socialcircles, feeling in fact inferior and in need of their support. (Losing any sense ofsuperiority would later lead to a personal crisis, in which he would lose faith inhis role as a missionary and leave the church for good.)He began to enact this strategy on all levels, entering a realm of their livesthat had been hidden to him. Soon all kinds of ideas about their strange languagecame to him. The linguistic oddities of Pirahã reflected the unique culture thatthey had evolved from living in isolation for so long. Participating in their livesas if he was one of their children, the language came alive from within, and hebegan to make the kind of progress in Pirahã that had eluded everyone elsebefore him. In his apprenticeship in the jungles of the Amazon that would later lead to hiscareer as a groundbreaking linguist, Daniel Everett came upon a truth that hasapplication far beyond his field of study. What prevents people from learning,even something as difficult as Pirahã, is not the subject itself—the human mindhas limitless capabilities—but rather certain learning disabilities that tend tofester and grow in our minds as we get older. These include a sense of smugnessand superiority whenever we encounter something alien to our ways, as well as rigid ideas about what is real or true, often indoctrinated in us by schooling orfamily. If we feel like we know something, our minds close off to otherpossibilities. We see reflections of the truth we have already assumed. Suchfeelings of superiority are often unconscious and stem from a fear of what isdifferent or unknown. We are rarely aware of this, and often imagine ourselvesto be paragons of impartiality.Children are generally free of these handicaps. They are dependent uponadults for their survival and naturally feel inferior. This sense of inferiority givesthem a hunger to learn. Through learning, they can bridge the gap and not feel sohelpless. Their minds are completely open; they pay greater attention. This iswhy children can learn so quickly and so deeply. Unlike other animals, wehumans retain what is known as neoteny—mental and physical traits ofimmaturity—well into our adult years. We have the remarkable capability ofreturning to a childlike spirit, especially in moments in which we must learnsomething. Well into our fifties and beyond, we can return to that sense ofwonder and curiosity, reviving our youth and apprenticeships.Understand: when you enter a new environment, your task is to learn andabsorb as much as possible. For that purpose you must try to revert to a childlikefeeling of inferiority—the feeling that others know much more than you and thatyou are dependent upon them to learn and safely navigate your apprenticeship.You drop all of your preconceptions about an environment or field, any lingeringfeelings of smugness. You have no fears. You interact with people andparticipate in the culture as deeply as possible. You are full of curiosity.Assuming this sensation of inferiority, your mind will open up and you will havea