thatthey are coming from outside us. We are literally “inspired,” the Latin wordmeaning something from the outside breathing within us.Let us state it in the following way: At your birth a seed is planted. That seedis your uniqueness. It wants to grow, transform itself, and flower to its fullpotential. It has a natural, assertive energy to it. Your Life’s Task is to bring thatseed to flower, to express your uniqueness through your work. You have adestiny to fulfill. The stronger you feel and maintain it—as a force, a voice, or inwhatever form—the greater your chance for fulfilling this Life’s Task andachieving mastery.What weakens this force, what makes you not feel it or even doubt itsexistence, is the degree to which you have succumbed to another force in life—social pressures to conform. This counterforce can be very powerful. You wantto fit into a group. Unconsciously, you might feel that what makes you differentis embarrassing or painful. Your parents often act as a counter-force as well.They may seek to direct you to a career path that is lucrative and comfortable. Ifthese counterforces become strong enough, you can lose complete contact withyour uniqueness, with who you really are. Your inclinations and desires becomemodeled on those of others.This can set you off on a very dangerous path. You end up choosing a careerthat does not really suit you. Your desire and interest slowly wane and yourwork suffers for it. You come to see pleasure and fulfillment as something thatcomes from outside your work. Because you are increasingly less engaged inyour career, you fail to pay attention to changes going on in the field—you fallbehind the times and pay a price for this. At moments when you must makeimportant decisions, you flounder or follow what others are doing because youhave no sense of inner direction or radar to guide you. You have broken contactwith your destiny as formed at birth.At all cost you must avoid such a fate. The process of following your Life’sTask all the way to mastery can essentially begin at any point in life. The hiddenforce within you is always there and ready to be engaged.The process of realizing your Life’s Task comes in three stages: First, youmust connect or reconnect with your inclinations, that sense of uniqueness. The must connect or reconnect with your inclinations, that sense of uniqueness. Thefirst step then is always inward. You search the past for signs of that inner voiceor force. You clear away the other voices that might confuse you—parents andpeers. You look for an underlying pattern, a core to your character that you mustunderstand as deeply as possible.Second, with this connection established, you must look at the career pathyou are already on or are about to begin. The choice of this path—or redirectionof it—is critical. To help in this stage you will need to enlarge your concept ofwork itself. Too often we make a separation in our lives—there is work andthere is life outside work, where we find real pleasure and fulfillment. Work isoften