that you are not seduced by expertise andintelligence. Character, the ability to work under you and with the rest of theteam, and the capacity to accept responsibility and think independently areequally key. That is why Marshall tested Eisenhower for so long. You may nothave as much time to spare, but never choose a man merely by his glitteringresume. Look beyond his skills to his psychological makeup.Rely on the team you have assembled, but do not be its prisoner or give itundue influence. Franklin D. Roosevelt had his infamous "brain trust," theadvisers and cabinet members on whom he depended for their ideas andopinions, but he never let them in on the actual decision making, and he keptthem from building up their own power base within the administration. He sawthem simply as tools, extending his own abilities and saving him valuable time.He understood unity of command and was never seduced into violating it.A key function of any chain of command is to supply information rapidlyfrom the trenches, letting you adapt fast to circumstances. The shorter and morestreamlined the chain of command, the better for the flow of information. Evenso, information is often diluted as it passes up the chain: the telling details thatreveal so much become standardized and general as they are filtered throughformal channels. Some on the chain, too, will interpret the information for you,filtering what you hear. To get more direct knowledge, you might occasionallywant to visit the field yourself. Marshall would sometimes drop in on an armybase incognito to see with his own eyes how his reforms were taking effect; hewould also read letters from soldiers. But in these days of increasing complexity,this can consume far too much of your time.What you need is what the military historian Martin van Creveld calls "adirected telescope": people in various parts of the chain, and elsewhere, to giveyou instant information from the battlefield. These people--an informal networkof friends, allies, and spies--let you bypass the slow-moving chain. The masterof this game was Napoleon, who created a kind of shadow brigade of youngerofficers in all areas of the military, men chosen for their loyalty, energy, andintelligence. At a moment's notice, he would send one of these men to a far-offfront or garrison, or even to enemy headquarters (ostensibly as a diplomaticenvoy), with secret instructions to gather the kind of information he could notget fast enough through normal channels. In general, it is important to cultivatethese directed telescopes and plant them throughout the group. They give youflexibility in the chain, room to maneuver in a generally rigid environment. The single greatest risk to your chain of command comes from the politicalanimals in the group. People like this are inescapable; they spring up like weedsin any organization. Not only are they out for themselves, but they build factionsto further their own agendas and fracture the cohesion you have built.Interpreting your commands for their own purposes, finding loopholes in anyambiguity, they create invisible breaks in the chain.Try to weed them out before they arrive. In hiring your