1643, he retired to a life of seclusion in a cave called “Reigendo”. Here he wrote Go Rin No Sho , addressed to his pupil Teruo Nobuyuki, a few weeks before his death on the nineteenth of May, 1645. Musashi is known to the Japanese as “Kensei”, that is “Sword Saint”. Go Rin No Sho heads every Kendo bibliography, being unique among books of martial art in that it deals with both the strategy of warfare and the methods of single combat in exactly the same way. The book is not a thesis on strategy, it is in Musashi’s words “a guide for men who want to learn strategy” and, as a guide always leads, so the contents are always beyond the student’s understanding. The more one reads the book the more one finds in its pages. It is Musashi’s last will, the key to the path he trod. When, at twenty-eight or twenty-nine, he had become such a strong fighter, he did not settle down and build a school, replete with success, but became doubly engrossed with his study. In his last days even, he scorned the life of comfort with lord Hosokawa and lived two years alone in a mountain cave deep in contemplation. The behaviour of this cruel, headstrong man was evidently most humble and honest. Musashi wrote “When you have attained the Way of strategy there will be not one thing that you cannot understand” and “You will see the Way in everything”. He did, in fact, become a master of arts and crafts. He produced masterpieces of ink painting, probably more highly valued by the Japanese than the ink paintings of any other. His works include cormorants, herons, Hotei the Shinto God, dragons, birds with flowers, bird in a dead tree, Daruma (Bodhidharma), and others. He was a fine calligrapher, evidenced by his piece “Senki” (Warspirit). There is a small wood sculpture of the Buddhist deity Fudo Myoo in private hands. A sculpture of Kwannon was lost recently. He made works in metal, and founded the school of sword guard makers who signed “Niten”, after him (see below). He is said to have written poems and songs, but none of these survive. It is said also that he was commissioned by the Shogun Iemitsu to paint the sunrise over Edo castle. His paintings are sometimes impressed with his seal, “Musashi”, or his nom de plume “Niten”. Niten means “Two Heavens”, said by some to allude to his fighting attitude with a sword in each hand held above his head. In some places he established schools known as “Niten ryu”, and in other places called it “Enmei ryu” (clear circle). He wrote “Study the Ways of all professions”. It is evident that he did just that. He sought out not only great swordsmen but also priests, strategists, artists and craftsmen, eager to broaden his knowledge. Musashi writes about the various aspects of Kendo in such a way that it is possible for the beginner to study