everyone away; her legionof enemies was growing, her poll numbers slipping still lower. Surely the nextelection would be her last.[Salvador Dali] had no time for those who did not agree with his principles,and took the war into the enemy camp by writing insulting letters to many ofthe friends he had made in the Residencia, calling them pigs. He happilycompared himself to a clever bull avoiding the cowboys and generally had agreat deal of fun stirring up and scandalizing almost every Catalanintellectual worthy of the name. Dali was beginning to burn his bridges withthe zeal of an arsonist.... "We [Dali and the filmmaker Luis Bunuel] hadresolved to send a poison pen letter to one of the great celebrities of Spain,"Dali later told his biographer Alain Bosquet. "Our goal was puresubversion.... Both of us were strongly influenced by Nietzsche.... We hit upontwo names: Manuel de Falla, the composer, and Juan Ramon Jimenez, thepoet. We drew straws and Jimenez won.... So we composed a frenzied andnasty letter of incomparable violence and addressed it to Juan RamonJimenez. It read: 'Our Distinguished Friend: We believe it is our duty toinform you--disinterestedly--that your work is deeply repugnant to us becauseof its immorality, its hysteria, its arbitrary quality....' It caused Jimenez greatpain...."THE PERSISTENCE OF MEMORY: A BIOGRAPHY OF DALI, MEREDITHETHERINGTON-SMITH, 1992Then, in 1982, on the other side of the Atlantic, the military junta that ruledArgentina, needing a cause to distract the country from its many problems,invaded the Falkland Islands, a British possession to which, however, Argentinahad a historical claim. The officers of the junta felt certain that the British wouldabandon these islands, barren and remote. But Thatcher did not hesitate: despitethe distance--eight thousand miles--she sent a naval task force to the Falklands.Labour leaders attacked her for this pointless and costly war. Many in her own party were terrified; if the attempt to retake the islands failed, the party would beruined. Thatcher was more alone than ever. But much of the public now saw herqualities, which had seemed so irritating, in a new light: her obstinacy becamecourage, nobility. Compared to the dithering, pantywaisted, careerist men aroundher, Thatcher seemed resolute and confident.The British successfully won back the Falklands, and Thatcher stood tallerthan ever. Suddenly the country's economic and social problems were forgotten.Thatcher now dominated the scene, and in the next two elections she crushedLabour.InterpretationMargaret Thatcher came to power as an outsider: a middle-class woman, a right-wing radical. The first instinct of most outsiders who attain power is to becomeinsiders--life on the outside is hard--but in doing so they lose their identity, theirdifference, the thing that makes them stand out in the public eye. If Thatcher hadbecome like the men around her, she would simply have been replaced by yetanother man. Her instinct was to stay an outsider. In fact, she pushed being anoutsider as far as it could go: she set herself up as one woman against an army ofmen.At every step of the way, to give her the contrast she needed, Thatchermarked out an opponent: the socialists, the