Giovanni (Italian for Don Juan). To makethis story come alive in the way he had imagined it, he would once again applyhis transformative powers—this time to the genre of opera.At the time, operas tended to be rather static and formulaic. They consistedof recitatives (spoken dialogue accompanied by harpsichord that conveyed thestory and action), arias (sung portions in which the singer would react to theinformation in the recitative), and choral pieces, featuring large groups of peoplesinging together. For his opera, Mozart created something that flowed as acontinuous whole. He conveyed the character of Don Giovanni not just throughthe words but through the music, accompanying the seducer’s presence on stagewith a constant twitching tremolo in the violins to represent his nervous, sensualenergy. He gave the work an accelerated, almost frantic pace that no one hadever witnessed before in the theater. To push the expressive value of the musicfurther, he invented ensembles—stirring, climactic moments in which severalcharacters would sing, sometimes over one another, in an elaborate counterpoint,giving the opera a dreamlike feel and flow.From beginning to end, Don Giovanni resonated with the demonic presenceof the great seducer. Although all of the other characters condemn him, it is impossible not to admire Don Giovanni even as he remains unrepentant to theend, laughing all the way to hell and refusing to submit to authority. DonGiovanni was not like any opera anyone had ever seen before, either in the storyor in the music, and it was perhaps too far ahead of its time. Many complainedthat it was all rather ugly and harsh to the ears; they found the pace too freneticand the moral ambiguity too disturbing.Continuing to work at a deliriously creative pace, Mozart exhausted himselfand died in 1791, two months after the premier of his last opera, The MagicFlute, at the age of thirty-five. Several years after his death audiences caught upwith the radical sound he had created in works such as Don Giovanni, whichsoon became among the five most frequently performed operas in history.KEYS TO MASTERY… Several things dovetailed in my mind, & at once it struck me, what quality went to form aMan of Achievement especially in Literature & which Shakespeare possessed soenormously–I mean Negative Capability, that is when man is capable of being inuncertainties, Mysteries, doubts, without any irritable reaching after fact & reason….—JOHN KEATSIf we think deeply about our childhood, not just about our memories of it buthow it actually felt, we realize how differently we experienced the world backthen. Our minds were completely open, and we entertained all kinds ofsurprising, original ideas. Things that we now take for granted, things as simpleas the night sky or our reflection in a mirror, often caused us to wonder. Ourheads teemed with questions about the world around us. Not yet havingcommanded language, we thought in ways that were preverbal—in images andsensations. When we attended the circus, a sporting event, or a movie, our eyesand ears took in the spectacle with utmost intensity. Colors seemed more vibrantand alive. We had a powerful desire to