Vietcong Vietnam France and United States and. See Vietnam War Vietnam War camouflage in center-of-gravity example from as grand strategy example Johnson and as morality war public opinion on Tet Offensive violence, avoiding visualization Vo Nguyen Giap. See Giap, Vo Nguyen vulnerability. See weakness(es) Wallace, William War Department, U.S. war/warfare. See also conflict; specific wars ancient arguments against of attrition controlling as crusade declaring defensive. See defensive warfare ending. See exits and endings external vs. internal front fortress defense in frontal battles gods of. See also specific gods history of last maneuver. See maneuver warfare moral. See moral warfare/warriors negotiation and, comparison between organizational. See organizational war peasants' physical aspects of as politics by other means present with the self. See self-directed warfare self-destructive patterns in of self-interest speed and mobility in unconventional. See unconventional warfare Warner Bros. Warriors: Warfare and the Native American Indian (Bancroft Hunt) Wasserman, James Wavell, Archibald Way to Victory, A: The Annotated Book of Five Rings (Ochiai) weakness(es) appearance of disguising pinpointing psychological signs of use in envelopment as virtues Weathermen Wei (warring state of China) wei wu (action through inaction) West, Mae Westbrook, Adele Westmoreland, William C. What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? Wiles of War, The: 36 Military Strategies from Ancient China (Sun) Williams, Davey Williams, Ted intelligence gathering by Wilson, Woodrow Windigokan (Ojibwa warrior society) Women, The words lack of power of power through workplace, group dynamics in World Restored, A (Kissinger) World Trade Center attack (2001) World War I Arabs in East African front France in Germany in Great Britain in inner-front strategy in Middle Eastern theater planted information in Turkey in World War II African front camouflage in D-Day deception strategies in forcing strategy in France in Germany in Great Britain in Italy in Japan in London Blitz Pearl Harbor bombing public opinion during Russia in Soviet Union in Spain in United States in Xenophon Xerxes I, king of Persia Yakkoku Yamanouchi, Lord Yang Hu Yawkey, Tom Yom Kippur War Yoriyasu Yu the Sage Zama, Africa Zeus Zia ul-Haq Zukor, Adolph Zulus, British war with Grateful acknowledgment is made for permission to reprint excerpts from the following copyrighted works: Religious Mythology and the Art of War: Comparative Religious Symbolisms of Military Violence by James A. Aho. Copyright (c) 1981 by James A. Aho. Reprinted by permission of Greenwood Publishing Group, Inc., Westport, Connecticut. Dragonwars: Armed Struggle and the Conventions of Modern War by J. Bowyer Bell. Copyright (c) 1999 by Transaction Publishers. Reprinted by permission of Transaction Publishers. Roosevelt: The Lion and the Fox by James MacGregor Burns. Copyright (c) 1956 by James MacGregor Burns. Copyright renewed 1984 by James MacGregor Burns. Reprinted by permission of Harcourt, Inc. The Years of Lyndon Johnson: The Path to Power by Robert A. Caro. Copyright (c) 1982 by Robert A. Caro. Used by permission of Alfred A. Knopf, a division of Random House, Inc. Journey to Ixtlan: The Lessons of Don Juan by Carlos Castaneda. Copyright (c) 1972 by Carlos Castaneda. Abridged and