any move against him wouldresult in revelations that would ruin them.Assigned to prepare for Operation Sealion, Canaris doctored the intelligenceto make England look much more formidable than it was. Assigned toinvestigate an invasion of Gibraltar, he secretly told the Spanish that to letGermany use their country would spell disaster: Germany would never leave.Hence Franco's alienating treatment of Hitler. In both of these cases, Canaris exploited Hitler's impatience for quick and easy victories to discourage him fromventures that could have easily and irrevocably turned the war in his favor.Finally, in the case of Badoglio, Canaris understood Hitler's weak spot--aparanoid concern with the loyalty of others--and coached Ame on how to appealto this weakness and make a show of Italy's devotion to the Axis cause. Theresults of Canaris's work from the inside are astounding: one man played a majorrole in saving England, Spain, and Italy from disaster, arguably turning the tideof the war. The resources of the German war machine were essentially at hisdisposal, to disrupt and derail its efforts.As the story of Canaris demonstrates, if there is something you want to fightor destroy, it is often best to repress your desire to act out your hostility,revealing your position and letting the other side know your intentions. Whatyou gain in publicity, and perhaps in feeling good about expressing yourselfopenly, you lose in a curtailment of your power to cause real damage,particularly if the enemy is strong.Instead the ultimate strategy is to seem to stay on the enemy side, burrowingdeep into its heart. From there you can gather valuable information: weaknessesto attack, incriminating evidence to publicize. Here subtle maneuvers, likepassing along false information or steering your opponent into a self-destructivepolicy, can have large effects--much larger than anything you could do from theoutside. The enemy's powers become weapons you can use against it, a kind ofturncoat armory at your disposal. It is hard for most people to imagine thatsomeone who outwardly plays the part of a loyal supporter or friend can secretlybe a foe. This makes your hostile intentions and maneuvers relatively easy tocloak. When you are invisible to the enemy, there is no limit to the destructivepowers at your command.Speak deferentially, listen respectfully, follow his command, and accord withhim in everything. He will never imagine you might be in conflict with him.Our treacherous measures will then be settled.--Tai Kung, Six Secret Teachings (circa fourth century B.C.)THE FRIENDLY TAKEOVERIn the summer of 1929, Andre Breton, the thirty-three-year-old leader of Paris'savant-garde surrealist movement, saw a private screening of a film called UnChien Andalou. It was directed by a Spanish member of the group, Luis Bunuel,and its first image showed a man slicing open a woman's eye with a knife. This,Breton exclaimed, was the first surrealist film. Un Chien Andalou generatedexcitement in part because of the contribution to it of a new artist on the scene, Salvador Dali, a friend and collaborator of Bunuel's. The director spoke highly toBreton of his fellow Spaniard, whose paintings, he said, could certainly beconsidered surrealist and whose personality was supremely