them andbringing your readings of them up to date.General Knowledge—The Seven Deadly RealitiesThroughout recorded history we can detect patterns of human behavior thattranscend culture and time, indicating certain universal features that belong to usas a species. Some of these traits are quite positive—for instance, our ability tocooperate with one another in a group—while some of them are negative andcan prove destructive. Most of us have these negative qualities—Envy,Conformism, Rigidity, Self-obsessiveness, Laziness, Flightiness, and PassiveAggression—in relatively mild doses. But in a group setting, there willinevitably be people who have one or more of these qualities to a high enoughdegree that they can become very destructive. We shall call these negativequalities the Seven Deadly Realities.The problem for us is that people do not like to display these traits publiclybecause they are seen as ugly and undesirable. They tend to disguise them fromview, finally revealing their reality through some action that blind-sides andharms us. In our surprise, we tend to react emotionally, increasing the damage,the effects of which we can carry with us the rest of our lives. Through study andobservation, we must understand the nature of these Seven Deadly Realities sothat we can detect their presence and avoid triggering them in the first place.Consider the following as essential knowledge in acquiring social intelligence.Envy: It is our nature to constantly compare ourselves to others—in terms ofmoney, looks, coolness, intelligence, popularity, or any number of categories. Ifwe are upset that someone we know is more successful than we are, we willnaturally experience some envy, but often we will find a way to minimize itbecause it is an unpleasant emotion. We tell ourselves that the success of anotherperson is a matter of luck or came through their connections, or that it won’t last.But for some people it goes much deeper than this, usually because of the levelof their insecurities. Seething with envy, the only way to discharge it is to find away to obstruct or sabotage the person who elicited the emotion. If they takesuch action they will never say it is because of envy, but will find some other,more socially acceptable excuse. They often won’t even admit their envy tothemselves. This makes it a quality very hard to recognize in people. There are, however, a few indications you can look for. People who praise you too much orwho become overly friendly in the first stages of knowing you are often enviousand are getting closer in order to hurt you. You should be wary of such behavior.Also, if you detect unusual levels of insecurity in a person, he or she willcertainly be more prone to envy.In general, however, envy is very difficult to discern, and the most prudentcourse of action is to make sure your own behavior does not inadvertentlytrigger it. If you have a gift for a certain skill, you should make a point ofoccasionally displaying some weakness in another area, avoiding the greatdanger of appearing too perfect, too talented. If you are dealing with insecuretypes, you can display great interest in their work