a defeat unnerve him. Whensomething unexpected happened--and the unexpected is to be expected in war--the solution he improvised to meet it would have to suit goals far on the horizon.His subordination of his emotions to strategic thought would give him more control during the course of the campaign. He would keep his perspective in theheat of battle. He would not get caught up in the reactive and self-destructivepattern that had destroyed so many armies and states.This principle of campaigning was only relatively recently christened "grandstrategy," but it has existed in various forms since ancient times. It is clearlyvisible in Alexander's conquest of Persia, in the Roman and Byzantine empires'control of vast territories with small armies, in the disciplined campaigns of theMongols, in Queen Elizabeth I's defeat of the Spanish Armada, in the Duke ofMarlborough's brilliantly conceived campaigns against the Hapsburgs. Inmodern times North Vietnam's defeat first of the French, then of the UnitedStates--in the latter case without winning a single major battle--must beconsidered a consummate use of the art.Military history shows that the key to grand strategy--the thing that separatesit from simple, garden-variety strategy--is its particular quality of forethought.Grand strategists think and plan further into the future before taking action. Noris their planning simply a matter of accumulating knowledge and information; itinvolves looking at the world with a dispassionate eye, thinking in terms of thecampaign, planning indirect, subtle steps along the way whose purpose may onlygradually become visible to others. Not only does this kind of planning fool anddisorient the enemy; for the strategist it has the psychological effects of calm, asense of perspective, flexibility to change in the moment while keeping theultimate goal in mind. Emotions are easier to control; vision is far-seeing andclear. Grand strategy is the apex of rationality.Plot against the difficult while it remains easy, Act against the great while itis still minute. Difficult affairs throughout the realm invariably commencewith the easy, Great affairs throughout the realm inevitably commence withthe small. For this reason the Sage never acts against the great and is thusable to complete greatness. What is tranquil remains easily grasped, Whathas not yet betrayed signs is easy to plot against. The brittle is easily split,The minute is easily scattered. Act upon them before they attain being,Control them before they become chaotic. Trees that require both arms toembrace Are born from insignificant saplings. A nine-story tower commenceswith a little accumulated earth, A journey of a thousand kilometers beginsbeneath one's feet. TAO TE CHING, LAO-TZU, CIRCA 551-479 B.C. Grand strategy has four main principles, distilled below from case historiesof the most successful practitioners of the art. The more you can incorporatethese principles into your plans, the better the results. Focus on your greater goal, your destiny. The first step toward becoming agrand strategist--the step that will make everything else fall into place--is tobegin with a clear, detailed, purposeful goal in mind, one rooted in reality. Weoften imagine that we generally operate by some kind of plan, that we have goalswe are trying to reach. But