Suddenly Munenori stopped in his tracks. He had a feeling ofdanger. Looking around, he saw nothing to warrant this feeling, but even so hewas so troubled that he returned to his house and sat with his back against a postto prevent a surprise attack.Then David fled from Nai'oth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan,"What have I done? What is my guilt? And what is my sin before your father,that he seeks my life?" And he said to him, "Far from it! You shall not die.Behold, my father does nothing either great or small without disclosing it tome; and why should my father hide this from me? It is not so." But Davidreplied, "Your father knows well that I have found favor in your eyes; and hethinks, 'Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved.' But truly, as the Lordlives and as your soul lives, there is but a step between me and death." Thensaid Jonathan to David, "Whatever you say, I will do for you." David said toJonathan, "Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit attable with the king; but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field till thethird day at evening. If your father misses me at all, then say, 'David earnestlyasked leave of me to run to Bethlehem his city; for there is a yearly sacrificethere for all the family.' If he says, 'Good!' it will be well with your servant;but if he is angry, then know that evil is determined by him."...And Jonathansaid to David, "Come, let us go out into the field." So they both went out intothe field.... So David hid himself in the field; and when the new moon came,the king sat down to eat food. The king sat upon his seat, as at other times,upon the seat by the wall; Jonathan sat opposite, and Abner sat by Saul'sside, but David's place was empty. Yet Saul did not say anything that day; forhe thought, "Something has befallen him; he is not clean, surely he is notclean." But on the second day, the morrow after the new moon, David's place was empty. And Saul said to Jonathan his son, "Why has not the son of Jessecome to the meal, either yesterday or today?" Jonathan answered Saul,"David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem; he said, 'Let me go;for our family holds a sacrifice in the city, and my brother has commandedme to be there. So now, if I have found favor in your eyes, let me get away,and see my brothers.' For this reason he has not come to the king's table."Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said to him, "Youson of a perverse, rebellious woman, do I not know that you have chosen theson of Jesse to your own shame, and to the shame of your mother'snakedness? For as long as the son of Jesse lives upon the earth, neither younor your kingdom shall be established.