when it may provesymbolically successful, a good strategist avoids it. Retreat is always the betterstrategy.Retreat must never be an end in itself; at some point you have to turn around and fight. If you don't, retreat is more accurately called surrender: the enemywins. Combat is in the long run unavoidable. Retreat can only be temporary. PART IV OFFENSIVE WARFAREThe greatest dangers in war, and in life, come from the unexpected: people donot respond the way you had thought they would, events mess up your plans andproduce confusion, circumstances are overwhelming. In strategy thisdiscrepancy between what you want to happen and what does happen is called"friction." The idea behind conventional offensive warfare is simple: byattacking the other side first, hitting its points of vulnerability, and seizing theinitiative and never letting it go, you create your own circumstances. Before anyfriction can creep in and undermine your plans, you move to the offensive, andyour relentless maneuvers force so much friction on the enemy that he collapses.This is the form of warfare practiced by the most successful captains inhistory, and the secret to their success is a perfect blend of strategic clevernessand audacity. The strategic element comes in the planning: setting an overallgoal, crafting ways to reach it, and thinking the whole plan through in intensedetail. This means thinking in terms of a campaign, not individual battles. It alsomeans knowing the strengths and weaknesses of the other side, so that you cancalibrate your strikes to its vulnerabilities. The more detailed your planning, themore confident you will feel as you go into battle, and the easier it will be to stayon course once the inevitable problems arise. In the attack itself, though, youmust strike with such spirit and audacity that you put your enemies on theirheels, giving irresistible momentum to your offensive.The following eleven chapters will initiate you into this supreme form ofwarfare. They will help you to put your desires and goals into a largerframework known as "grand strategy." They will show you how to look at yourenemies and uncover their secrets. They will describe how a solid base ofplanning will give you fluid options for attack and how specific maneuvers (theflanking maneuver, the envelopment) and styles of attack (hitting centers ofgravity, forcing the enemy into positions of great weakness) that work brilliantlyin war can be applied in life. Finally, they will show you how to finish off yourcampaign. Without a vigorous conclusion that meets your overall goals,everything you have done will be worthless. Mastering the various componentsof offensive warfare will give all of your attacks in life much greater force. LOSE BATTLES BUT WIN THE WARGRAND STRATEGYEveryone around you is a strategist angling for power, all trying to promote theirown interests, often at your expense. Your daily battles with them make you losesight of the only thing that really matters: victory in the end, the achievement ofgreater goals, lasting power. Grand strategy is the art of looking beyond thebattle and calculating ahead. It requires that you focus on your ultimate goaland plot to