ratherpoor according to our standards, was actually something remarkably rich. Overthe course of hundreds of years they had adapted a way of life that was perfectlywedded to the harsh circumstances of their environment.Now, as he looked back on the same incidents that had troubled him before,he could see them in a new light. Living so closely to death on a daily basis (the he could see them in a new light. Living so closely to death on a daily basis (thejungle was teeming with dangers and diseases), they had developed a rather stoicattitude. They could not afford to waste time or energy on mourning rituals or ontoo much empathy. They could sense when someone was going to die, and beingcertain that the infant the Everetts had tried to nurse was doomed, they thought iteasier and better to hasten its death and not look back. The village men who hadthought of killing him had heard that he did not like their drinking; they fearedthat he was yet another outsider who was going to impose his values andauthority on them. They had their reasons for behaving as they did, but only withtime could he see them clearly.He extended his participation in their lives to other aspects—hunting andfishing excursions, gathering roots and vegetables in the fields, and so on. Heand his family would share meals with them and interacted with them as much aspossible, and in this way he slowly immersed himself in the Pirahã culture.Although it was not immediately apparent, this also initiated a change in hislearning of the language itself. It started to come more naturally—less from thetireless work of a field researcher and more from within, from simply livinginside their culture. He began to think like a Pirahã, to foresee their reactions towhat some visiting Westerner would ask of them; he got inside their sense ofhumor, and the kinds of stories they liked to relate around the campfire.And as he began to understand more aspects of their culture and tocommunicate with a higher degree of proficiency, he noticed more and morepeculiarities to the Pirahã language. Everett had been indoctrinated in theprevailing beliefs in linguistics championed by Noam Chomsky. According toChomsky all languages share certain features, which he designates as UniversalGrammar. This grammar implies a common neurological trait to the brain thatallows for the learning of languages among children. According to this theory,we are hardwired for language. But the more time Everett spent among thePirahã, the more signs he saw that their language did not share some of thesecommon features. They had no numbers and no system for counting. They hadno specific words for colors, but rather described colors through phrases thatrelated to real objects.According to Universal Grammar, the most important trait shared by alllanguages is what is known as recursion, the embedding of phrases withinphrases that gives language an almost infinite potential to relate experiences. Anexample would be, “the food you are eating smells good.” Everett could findabsolutely no evidence for recursion in Pirahã. They would express such ideas insimple,