to deal withusers and perfect the program based on their feedback. This would mean theywould be forced to think and program in Windows for months, perhaps years.This was too awful a prospect, and they seriously considered giving up.One morning Graham, who had been sleeping on a mattress on the floor inMorris’s Manhattan apartment, woke up repeating certain words that must havecome to him from a dream: “You could control the program by clicking onlinks.” He suddenly sat bolt upright, as he realized what these words could mean—the possibility of creating a program to set up an online store that would runon the web server itself. People would download and use it through Netscape,clicking various links on the web page to set it up. This would mean he andMorris would bypass the usual route of writing a program that users woulddownload to their desktop. It would cut out the need ever to have to dabble inWindows. There was nothing out there like this, and yet it seemed like such anobvious solution. In a state of excitement he explained his epiphany to Morris,and they agreed to give it a try. Within a few days they finished the first version, and they agreed to give it a try. Within a few days they finished the first version,and it functioned beautifully. Clearly, the concept of a web application wouldwork.Over the next few weeks they refined the software, and found their ownangel investor who put up an initial $10,000 for a 10 percent share in thebusiness. In the beginning, it was quite hard to interest merchants in the concept.Their application server provider was the very first Internet-run program forstarting a business, at the very frontier of online commerce. Slowly, however, itbegan to take off.As it panned out, the novelty of their idea, which Graham and Morris hadcome upon largely because of their distaste for Windows, proved to have allkinds of unforeseen advantages. Working directly on the Internet, they couldgenerate a continuous stream of new releases of the software and test them rightaway. They could interact directly with consumers, getting instant feedback ontheir program and improving it in days rather than the months it could take withdesktop software. With no experience running a business, they did not think tohire salespeople to do the pitching; instead, they made the phone calls topotential clients themselves. But as they were the de facto salespeople, they werealso the first to hear complaints or suggestions from consumers, and this gavethem a real feel for the program’s weaknesses and how to improve it. Because itwas so unique and came out of left field, they had no competitors to worryabout; nobody could steal the idea because they were the only ones who wereinsane enough to attempt it.Naturally, they made several mistakes along the way, but the idea was toostrong to fail; and in 1998 they sold their company, named Viaweb, to Yahoo!for $50 million.As the years went by and Graham looked back at the experience, he wasstruck by the process he and Morris