motivates them. Withcolleagues in the work environment, we fail to see the source of their envy or thereason for their manipulations; our attempts at influencing them are based on theassumptions that they want the same things as ourselves. With mentors andbosses, we project onto them our childhood fantasies, becoming unnecessarilyadoring or fearful of authority figures and creating stormy and brittlerelationships in the process. We think we understand people, but we are viewingthem through a distorted lens. In this state, all of our empathic powers arerendered useless.With the inevitable mistakes we make, we become entangled in battles anddramas that consume our minds and distract us from learning. Our sense ofpriorities becomes warped—we end up giving far too much importance to socialand political issues because we are not handling them well. If we are not careful,we carry these patterns over to the next phase in life, the Creative-Active Phase,in which we are in a more public position. At this level, being socially inept canprove particularly embarrassing, even fatal to our careers. People who retaintheir childish attitudes will rarely be able to hold on to the success they mayachieve through their talent.Social intelligence is nothing more than the process of discarding the NaïvePerspective and approaching something more realistic. It involves focusing ourattention outward instead of inward, honing the observational and empathicskills that we naturally possess. It means moving past our tendency to idealize and demonize people, and seeing and accepting them as they are. It is a way ofthinking that must be cultivated as early as possible, during the ApprenticeshipPhase. But before we can begin to acquire this intelligence we must first come togrips with the Naïve Perspective itself.Look at the case of Benjamin Franklin, the icon of social intelligence and theclearest example of the role it plays in mastery. As the second youngest of alarge extended family, he learned to get his way through charm. As he got olderhe came to believe, as many young people do, that getting along with others is afunction of behaving charmingly and winning them over with a friendly manner.But as he engaged with the real world, he began to see his charm as the actualsource of his problem. Being charming was a strategy he had developed out ofchildish need; it was a reflection of his narcissism, of the love he had of his ownwords and wit. It had no relation to other people and their needs. It did notprevent them from exploiting or attacking him. To be truly charming andsocially effective you have to understand people, and to understand them youhave to get outside yourself and immerse your mind in their world.Only when he realized how deeply naïve he had been could he take thenecessary steps to move past this naïveté. His focus on gaining socialintelligence was the turning point of his career—it transformed him into thepreeminent observer of human nature, a man with a magical ability to see intopeople. It also made him the perfect social companion—men and womeneverywhere fell under his spell because of