is the stalemate. It seems thatwhatever you do only feeds the stagnation. Once this happens, a kind of mentalparalysis overcomes you. You lose the ability to think or respond in differentways. At such a point, all is lost. If you find yourself falling into such adynamic--dealing with a defensive, entrenched opponent or trapped in a reactiverelationship--you must become as creative as General Sherman. Deliberatelyshake up the pace of the slow waltz by doing something seemingly irrational.Operate outside the experience of the enemy, as Sherman did when he cuthimself loose from his supplies. Move fast here and slow there. One major joltgiven to the stale dynamic will shake it up, force the enemy to do somethingdifferent. With the slightest change, you have room for greater change and takingcontrol. Injecting novelty and mobility is often enough to unbalance the minds ofyour rigid and defensive opponents. 4. In 1833, Mr. Thomas Auld, the slaveholding owner of a plantation onMaryland's Eastern Shore, summoned back his slave Frederick Douglass, fifteenyears old at the time, from Baltimore, where Douglass had just spent seven yearsserving Auld's brother. Now he was needed to work the fields of the plantation.But life in the city had changed Douglass in many ways, and to his chagrin hefound it quite hard to disguise this from Auld. In Baltimore he had secretlymanaged to teach himself how to read and write, something no slave wasallowed to do, for that would stimulate dangerous thoughts. On the plantationDouglass tried to teach as many slaves as possible to read; these efforts werequickly squashed. But what was worse for him was that he had developed arather defiant attitude, what the slaveholder called impudence. He talked back toAuld, questioned some of his orders, and played all kinds of tricks to get more food. (Auld was notorious for keeping his slaves near starvation.)One day Auld informed Douglass that he was hiring him out for a year toMr. Edward Covey, a nearby farm renter who had earned a reputation as aconsummate "breaker of young Negroes." Slaveholders would send him theirmost difficult slaves, and in exchange for their free labor Covey would beatevery last ounce of rebellion out of them. Covey worked Douglass especiallyhard, and after a few months he was broken in body and spirit. He no longerdesired to read books or engage in discussions with his fellow slaves. On hisdays off, he would crawl under the shade of a tree and sleep off his exhaustionand despair.One especially hot day in August 1834, Douglass became ill and fainted.The next thing he knew, Covey was hovering over him, hickory slab in hand,ordering him back to work. But Douglass was too weak. Covey hit him on thehead, opening a deep wound. He kicked him a few times, but Douglass could notmove. Covey finally left, intending to deal with him later.Well, my dear reader, this battle with Mr. Covey,--undignified as it was, andas I fear my narration of it is--was the turning point in my "life as a slave." Itrekindled in my breast the