tone, which was self-damningenough. His former allies did not rally to his cause. They had come to hate him.His behavior became increasingly grandiose and erratic, until his employers atthe hospital had to dismiss him. Virtually penniless and abandoned by almosteveryone, he fell ill and died in 1865 at the age of forty-seven.B. As a medical student at the University of Padua in Italy in 1602, theEnglishman William Harvey (1578–1657) began to entertain doubts about thewhole conception of the heart and its function as an organ. What he had beentaught in school was based on the theories of the second-century Greekphysician Galen, which stated that some blood was manufactured in the liver andsome in the heart, and was transported by veins and absorbed by the body,supplying it with nutrition. According to the theory, this blood flowed ever soslowly from the liver and heart to the various parts of the body that needed it, butdid not flow back—it was merely consumed. What troubled Harvey was howmuch blood the body contained. How could it possibly produce and consume somuch liquid?Over the ensuing years his career prospered, culminating in his appointmentas Royal Physician to King James I. During these years, he continued to ponderthe same questions about blood and the role of the heart. And by the year 1618he had come up with a theory: blood flows through the body not slowly butrapidly, the heart acting as a pump. Blood is not produced and consumed;instead it circulates continually.The problem with this theory was that he had no direct means of verifying it.At the time, to open the heart of a human to study it would spell instant death.The only means available for research was vivisection of animals and thedissection of human corpses. Once the heart was opened in animals, however, itwould behave erratically and pump far too rapidly. The mechanics of the heartwere complex, and for Harvey they could only be deduced through controlledexperiments—such as using elaborate tourniquets on human veins—and couldnever be observed directly with the eyes.After many such controlled experiments Harvey felt certain he was correct,but he knew he would have to carefully strategize his next step. His theory wasradical. It would overturn many concepts about anatomy that had been acceptedas fact for centuries. He knew that to publish his results so far would only stir upenmity and create many enemies for himself. And so, thinking deeply aboutpeople’s natural reluctance to accept new ideas, he decided to do the following:he delayed publishing the results of his findings, waiting until he had firmed uphis theory and amassed more evidence. In the meantime, he involved his his theory and amassed more evidence. In the meantime, he involved hiscolleagues in further experiments and dissections, always eliciting theiropinions. Increasing numbers of them were impressed and supported his newtheory. Slowly winning most of them to his side, in 1627 he was appointed to thehighest position within the College of Physicians, virtually ensuring him ofemployment for the rest of his life and freeing him from the worry that