move andmake decisions faster than the enemy. But speed and adaptability are hard toachieve today. We have more information than ever before at our fingertips,making interpretation and decision making more difficult. We have more peopleto manage, those people are more widely spread, and we face more uncertainty.Learn from Napoleon, warfare's greatest master: speed and adaptability comefrom flexible organization. Break your forces into independent groups that canoperate and make decisions on their own. Make your forces elusive andunstoppable by infusing them with the spirit of the campaign, giving them amission to accomplish, and then letting them run.Finally, a most important point to be considered is that the revolutionarysystem of command employed by Napoleon was the outcome not of anytechnological advances, as one might expect, but merely of superiororganization and doctrine. The technical means at the emperor's disposalwere not a whit more sophisticated than those of his opponents; he differedfrom them in that he possessed the daring and ingenuity needed to transcendthe limits that technology had imposed on commanders for thousands ofyears. Whereas Napoleon's opponents sought to maintain control andminimize uncertainty by keeping their forces closely concentrated, Napoleonchose the opposite way, reorganizing and decentralizing his army in such away as to enable its parts to operate independently for a limited period oftime and consequently tolerate a higher degree of uncertainty. Rather thanallowing the technological means at hand to dictate the method of strategyand the functioning of command, Napoleon made profitable use of the verylimitations imposed by the technology.COMMAND IN WAR, MARTIN VAN CREVELD, 1985CALCULATED DISORDERIn 1800, by defeating Austria in the Battle of Marengo, Napoleon gained controlof northern Italy and forced the Austrians to sign a treaty recognizing Frenchterritorial gains there and in Belgium. For the next five years, an uneasy peace held sway--but Napoleon crowned himself emperor of France, and many inEurope began to suspect that this Corsican upstart had limitless ambitions. KarlMack, the Austrian quartermaster general and an older and influential member ofthe Austrian military, advocated a preemptive strike against France, with anarmy large enough to guarantee victory. He told his colleagues, "In war theobject is to beat the enemy, not merely to avoid being beaten."Mack and like-minded officers slowly gained influence, and in April 1805,Austria, England, and Russia signed a treaty of alliance to wage war on Franceand force her to return to her pre-Napoleonic borders. That summer theyformulated their plan: 95,000 Austrian troops would attack the French innorthern Italy, redressing the humiliating defeat of 1800. Another 23,000 troopswould secure the Tyrol, between Italy and Austria. Mack would then lead a forceof 70,000 men west along the Danube into Bavaria, preventing this strategicallylocated country from allying itself with France. Once encamped in Bavaria,Mack and his army would await the arrival a few weeks later of 75,000 troopsfrom Russia; the two armies would link up, and this unstoppable force wouldmarch west into France. Meanwhile the English would attack the French at sea.More troops would later be funneled into each war zone, making for an armytotaling 500,000 men overall--the largest military