worthy of concentrated attention. Do not waste time on things youcannot change or influence. Just keep moving. Absorb the spirit of the times. Throughout the history of warfare, there havebeen classic battles in which the past has confronted the future in a hopelessmismatch. It happened in the seventh century, when the Persians and Byzantinesconfronted the invincible armies of Islam, with their new form of desert fighting;or in the first half of the thirteenth century, when the Mongols used relentlessmobility to overwhelm the heavy armies of the Russians and Europeans; or in1806, when Napoleon crushed the Prussians at Jena. In each case the conqueringarmy developed a way of fighting that maximized a new form of technology or anew social order.You can reproduce this effect on a smaller scale by attuning yourself to thespirit of the times. Developing antennae for the trends that have yet to crest takeswork and study, as well as the flexibility to adapt to those trends. As you getolder, it is best to periodically alter your style. In the golden age of Hollywood,most actresses had very short careers. But Joan Crawford fought the studiosystem and managed to have a remarkably long career by constantly changingher style, going from siren to noir heroine to cult queen. Instead of stayingsentimentally attached to some fashion of days gone by, she was able to sense arising trend and go with it. By constantly adapting and changing your style, youwill avoid the pitfalls of your previous wars. Just when people feel they knowyou, you will change. Reverse course. The great Russian novelist Fyodor Dostoyevsky suffered fromepilepsy. Just before a seizure, he would experience a moment of intense ecstasy,which he described as a feeling of being suddenly flooded with reality, amomentary vision of the world exactly as it is. Later he would find himselfgetting depressed, as this vision was crowded out by the habits and routines ofdaily life. During these depressions, wanting to feel that closeness to realityagain, he would go to the nearest casino and gamble away all his money. Therereality would overwhelm him; comfort and routine would be gone, stale patternsbroken. Having to rethink everything, he would get his creative energy back. This was the closest he could deliberately come to the sense of ecstasy he gotthrough epilepsy.Dostoyevsky's method was a little extreme, but sometimes you have to shakeyourself up, break free from the hold of the past. This can take the form ofreversing your course, doing the opposite of what you would normally do in anygiven situation, putting yourself in some unusual circumstance, or literallystarting over. In those situations the mind has to deal with a new reality, and itsnaps to life. The change may be alarming, but it is also refreshing--evenexhilarating.To know that one is in a certain condition, in a certain state, is already aprocess of liberation; but a man who is not aware of his condition, of hisstruggle, tries to be something other than he is, which brings about habit. So,then, let us keep in mind that we