for use in the scabbard of caution. It Is the shield of great place; moral cowardice lowers one more than physical. Many have had eminent qualities, yet, for want of a stout heart, they passed inanimate lives and found a tomb in their own sloth. Wise Nature has thoughtfully combined in the bee the sweetness of its honey with the sharpness of its sting. lv W ait. It's a sign of a noble heart dowered with patience, never to be in a hurry , never to be in a passion. First be master over yourself if you would be master over others. Y ou must pass through the circumference of time before arriving at the centre of opportunity . A wise reserve seasons the aims and matures the means. Time's crutch eﬀects more than the iron club of Hercules. God Himself chasteneth not with a rod but with time. He [*1] spake a great word who said, "Time and I against any two." Fortune herself rewards waiting with the ﬁrst prize. lvi Have Presence of Mind. The child of a happy promptitude of spirit. Owing to this vivacity and wideawakeness there is no fear of danger or mischance. Many reﬂect much only to go wrong in the end: others attain their aim without thinking of it beforehand. There are natures of Antiperistasis who work best in an emergency . They are like monsters who succeed in all they do o&and, but fail in aught they think over. A thing occurs to them at once or never: for them there is no court of appeal. Celerity wins applause because it proves remarkable capacity; subtlety of judgment, prudence in action. lvii Slow and Sure. Early enough if well. Quickly done can be quickly undone. To last an eternity requires an eternity of preparation. Only excellence counts; only achievement endures. Profound intelligence is the only foundation for immortality . W orth much costs much. The precious metals are the heaviest. lviii Adapt Y ourself to your Company . There is no need to show your ability before every one. Employ no more force than is necessary . Let there be no unnecessary expenditure either of knowledge or of power. The skilful falconer only ﬂies enough birds to serve for the chase. If there is too much display to-day there will be nothing to show to-morrow . Always have some novelty wherewith to dazzle. To show something fresh each day keeps expectation alive and conceals the limits of capacity . lix Finish off well. In the house of Fortune, if you enter by the gate of pleasure you must leave by that of sorrow and vice versa. Y ou ought therefore to think of the ﬁnish, and attach more importance to a graceful exit than to applause on entrance. 'Tis the common lot of the unlucky to have a very fortunate outset and a very tragic end. The important point is not the vulgar applause on entrance--that comes to nearly all--but the general feeling