arguments based on theBible but with heavy-handed force, which, he also knew, would only make hiscause shine all the brighter. And so with incendiary language and arguments thatquestioned Leo's authority, he baited the pope into rash counterattacks. Lutheralready led an exemplary life, but he took it further by refusing all income fromhis writings. This widely known move in effect made his goodness theatrical, amatter for public consumption. In a few short years, Luther gained so muchsupport among the masses that the pope could not fight him without provoking arevolution. By using morality so consciously and publicly, he transformed it intoa strategy for winning power. The Reformation was one of the greatest politicalvictories in history.Understand: you cannot win wars without public and political support, butpeople will balk at joining your side or cause unless it seems righteous and just.And as Luther realized, presenting your cause as just takes strategy andshowmanship. First, it is wise to pick a fight with an enemy that you can portrayas authoritarian, hypocritical, and power-hungry. Using all available media, youstrike first with a moral offensive against the opponent's points of vulnerability.You make your language strong and appealing to the masses, and craft it, if youcan, to give people the opportunity to express a hostility they already feel. Youquote your enemies' own words back at them to make your attacks seem fair,almost disinterested. You create a moral taint that sticks to them like glue.Baiting them into a heavy-handed counterattack will win you even more publicsupport. Instead of trumpeting your own goodness--which would make you seemsmug and arrogant--you show it through the contrast between their unreasonableactions and your own crusading deeds. Aim at them the most withering charge ofall--that they are after power, while you are motivated by something higher and selfless.Do not worry about the manipulations you will have to resort to if you are towin this moral battle. Making a public show that your cause is more just than theenemy's will amply distract people from the means you employ.There always are concrete human groupings which fight other concretehuman groupings in the name of justice, humanity, order, or peace. Whenbeing reproached for immorality and cynicism, the spectator of politicalphenomena can always recognize in such reproaches a political weapon usedin actual combat.--Carl Schmitt (1888-1985)KEYS TO WARFAREIn almost all cultures, morality--the definition of good and evil--originated as away to differentiate one class of people from another. In ancient Greece, forexample, the word for "good" was first associated with the nobility, the higherclasses who served the state and proved their bravery on the battlefield; the bad--the base, self-centered, and cowardly--were generally the lower classes. Overtime a system of ethics evolved that served a similar but more sophisticatedfunction: to keep society orderly by separating the antisocial and "evil" from thesocial and "good." Societies use ideas about what is and is not moral to createvalues that serve them well. When these values fall behind the times orotherwise cease to fit, morality slowly shifts and evolves.There are individuals and groups, however, who use morality