had incurred in their endless travels.Finally, in a flash, it came to Wolfgang: it was never really the piano that was hislove, nor even music per se. He did not enjoy performing before others like apuppet. It was composing that he was destined for; but more than that, he had anintense love for the theater. He wanted to compose operas—that was his truevoice. He would never realize this if he remained in Salzburg. It was his fatherwho represented more than an obstacle; he was in fact ruining his life, his health,his confidence. It was not just about money; his father was actually jealous of hisson’s talents, and whether consciously or not, he was trying to stifle his progress.Wolfgang had to take a step, however painful, before it was too late.On a trip to Vienna in 1781, Wolfgang made the fateful decision to stay. Hewould never return to Salzburg. As if Wolfgang had broken some great taboo,his father could never forgive him for this; his son had abandoned the family.The rift between them would never be repaired. Feeling that he had lost so muchtime under his father’s thumb, Wolfgang composed at a furious pace, his mostfamous operas and compositions pouring out of him as if he were possessed. A false path in life is generally something we are attracted to for the wrong reasons—money, fame, attention, and so on. If it is attention we need, we oftenexperience a kind of emptiness inside that we are hoping to fill with the falselove of public approval. Because the field we choose does not correspond withour deepest inclinations, we rarely find the fulfillment that we crave. Our worksuffers for this, and the attention we may have gotten in the beginning starts tofade—a painful process. If it is money and comfort that dominate our decision,we are most often acting out of anxiety and the need to please our parents. Theymay steer us toward something lucrative out of care and concern, but lurkingunderneath this can be something else—perhaps a bit of envy that we have morefreedom than they had when they were young.Your strategy must be twofold: first, to realize as early as possible that youhave chosen your career for the wrong reasons, before your confidence takes ahit. And second, to actively rebel against those forces that have pushed you awayfrom your true path. Scoff at the need for attention and approval—they will leadyou astray. Feel some anger and resentment at the parental forces that want tofoist upon you an alien vocation. It is a healthy part of your development tofollow a path independent of your parents and to establish your own identity. Letyour sense of rebellion fill you with energy and purpose. If it is the father figure,the Leopold Mozart, that is blocking your path, you must slay him and clear theway.4. Let go of the past—The adaptation strategyFrom the time he was born in 1960, Freddie Roach was groomed to be a boxingchampion. His father had been a professional fighter himself, and his mother