“Tomorrow makesome silhouettes out of cardboard in various forms and throw them from the topof the terrace through the air; then draw the movements each makes at differentstages of descent.”His hunger to get at the core of life by exploring its details drove him intoelaborate research on human and animal anatomy. He wanted to be able to drawa human or a cat from the inside out. He personally dissected cadavers, sawingthrough bones and skulls, and he religiously attended autopsies so that he couldsee as closely as possible the structure of muscles and nerves. His anatomicaldrawings were far in advance of anything of his time for their realism andaccuracy.To other artists, Leonardo seemed insane for all of this attention to detail, butin the few paintings that he actually completed, the results of such rigorouspractice can be seen and felt. More than the work of any other artist of his time,the landscapes in the backgrounds of his paintings seemed infused with life.Every flower, branch, leaf or stone was rendered in intense detail. But thesebackgrounds were not simply there to decorate. In an effect known as sfumato,and one that was peculiar to his work, he would soften parts of thesebackgrounds to the point at which they would melt into the figure in theforeground, giving a dreamlike effect. It was part of his idea that all of life isdeeply interconnected and fused on some level.The faces of the women he painted had a pronounced effect on people, andparticularly on men, who often fell in love with the female figures he depicted inreligious scenes. It wasn’t any obvious sensual quality in their expression, but intheir ambiguous smiles and their beautifully rendered flesh the men wouldrecognize a powerfully seductive quality. Leonard heard many stories of themfinding their way to his paintings in various houses and secretly fondling thewomen in the images and kissing their lips. Much of Leonardo’s Mona Lisa has been damaged by attempts to clean andrestore it in the past, making it hard to imagine it as it originally appeared, andhow its startling qualities shocked the public. Fortunately, we have the criticVasari’s description of it, before it became hopelessly altered: “The eyebrows,growing thickly in one place and thinly in another, following the pores of theskin, could not have been more lifelike. The nose, with its ravishingly delicatepink nostrils, was life itself. The shaping of the mouth, where the red of the lipsmerged with the skin tones of the face, seemed not to be made from colors butfrom living flesh. In the hollow of the throat, the observant onlooker could seethe pulsing of the veins.”Long after Leonardo’s death, his paintings continue to have haunting anddisturbing effects on viewers. Numerous security guards in museums around theworld have been fired for their weird, obsessive relationships to his work, andLeonardo’s paintings remain the most vandalized in the history of art, all of thisattesting to the power of his work to stir up the most visceral emotions. The primary problem for artists in Leonardo da Vinci’s day was the