your notion of thinking and creativity beyond the confines ofwords and intellectualizations. Stimulating your brain and senses from alldirections will help unlock your natural creativity and help revive your originalmind.Step Three: The Creative Breakthrough—Tension and InsightIn the creative lives of almost all Masters, we hear of the following pattern: Theybegin a project with an initial intuition and an excitement about its potentialsuccess. Their project is deeply connected to something personal and primal, andseems very much alive to them.As their initial nervous excitement inspires them in certain directions, theybegin to give their concept shape, narrowing down its possibilities, andchanneling their energies into ideas that grow more and more distinct. Theyenter a phase of heightened focus. But Masters inevitably possess another qualitythat complicates the work process: They are not easily satisfied by what they aredoing. While able to feel excitement, they also feel doubt about the worthinessof their work. They have high internal standards. As they progress, they begin todetect flaws and difficulties in their original idea that they had not foreseen.As the process begins to become more conscious and less intuitive, that ideaonce so alive in them starts to seem somewhat dead or stale. This is a difficultfeeling to endure and so they work even harder, trying to force a solution. Theharder they try, the more inner tension and frustration they create. The sense ofstaleness grows. In the beginning, their mind teemed with rich associations; nowit seems condemned to a narrow track of thought that does not spark the sameconnections. At certain points in this process, lesser types would simply give upor settle for what they have—a mediocre and half-realized project. But Mastersare stronger. They have been through this before, and on an unconscious levelthey understand that they must plow forward, and that the frustration, or thefeeling of being blocked, has a purpose.At a particular high point of tension, they let go for a moment. This could beas simple as stopping work and going to sleep; or it could mean deciding to take a break, or to temporarily work on something else. What almost inevitablyhappens in such moments is that the solution, the perfect idea for completing thework comes to them.After ten long years of incessant thinking on the problem of generalrelativity, Albert Einstein decided one evening to simply give up. He had hadenough. It was beyond him. He went to bed early, and when he awoke thesolution suddenly came to him. The composer Richard Wagner had worked sohard on his opera Das Rheingold that he became completely blocked. Beyondfrustration, he took a long walk in the woods, lay down, and fell asleep. In a sortof half dream, he felt himself sinking in swiftly flowing water. The rushingsounds formed into musical chords. He awoke, terrified by a feeling ofdrowning. He hurried home and noted down the chords of his dream, whichseemed to perfectly conjure up the sound of rushing water. These chords becamethe prelude of the opera, a leitmotif that runs throughout it, and one of the mostastonishing pieces he had