royal cartouche in the demotic that had been previously identifiedas containing the name of Ptolemy. Knowing now many equivalent signsbetween hieroglyphs and demotic, he transposed the demotic symbols into whatthey should look like in the hieroglyphic version, to create what should be theword for Ptolemy. To his surprise and delight, he found such a word—makingthis the first successful decipherment of a hieroglyph. Knowing that this namewas probably written out in phonetics (as would be all foreign names), hededuced the sound equivalences in both demotic and hieroglyph for Ptolemy.With the letters P T L now identified, he found another cartouche in a papyrusdocument that he was certain would have to be that of Cleopatra, now addingnew letters to his knowledge. Ptolemy and Cleopatra had two different letters forT. For others this might prove baffling, but to Champollion he understood that itmerely represented homophones—much as the f sound in “phone” and “fold.”With growing knowledge of letters he proceeded to decipher the names of all ofthe royal cartouches he could find, giving him a treasure trove of alphabeticinformation.Then in September 1822 it all became unlocked in the most surprising way,in the course of one day. A temple had been discovered in a desolate part ofEgypt whose walls and statues were covered in hieroglyphs. Accurate drawingsof the hieroglyphs fell into Champollion’s hands, and in looking at them he wasstruck by something curious—none of the cartouches corresponded to the names he had already identified. He decided to apply the phonetic alphabet he haddeveloped to one of them, but could only see the letter S at the end. The firstsymbol reminded him of the image of the sun. In Coptic, which was a distantrelative of ancient Egyptian, the word for sun is Re. In the middle of thecartouche was a trident symbol with three prongs that looked eerily like an M.With great excitement he realized this could be the name Ramses. Ramses was apharaoh of the thirteenth century B.C., and this would mean that the Egyptianshad a phonetic alphabet dating back who knows how far in time—an earth-shattering discovery. He needed more proof to assert this.Another cartouche in the temple drawing had the same M-shaped symbol.The first symbol in the cartouche was that of an ibis. With his knowledge ofancient Egyptian history, he knew that the bird was the symbol of the god Thoth.This cartouche could now spell out Thot-mu-sis, or Thuthmose, yet anothername of an ancient pharaoh. In another part of the temple he saw a hieroglyphicword that consisted entirely of the equivalent letters of M and S. Thinking inCoptic, he translated the word as mis, which means to “give birth.” Sure enough,in the Greek text of the Rosetta stone he found a phrase referring to a birthday,and identified the equivalent of it in the hieroglyph section.Overwhelmed by what he had found, he ran through the streets of Paris tofind his brother. He shouted upon entering the room, “I’ve got it!” and thenfainted, falling to the floor. After nearly twenty years of a continuous obsession,through