a hundred enemies inarmour, with bows and swords, appear all around you. How will you meetthem? Will you crawl before them and beg for mercy? Will you show yourwarrior birth by dying in combat against them? Or does a man of the Way getsome special holy grace?" Ryozan said, "Let me win without surrenderingand without fighting."TestCaught in the midst of the hundred enemies, how will you manage to winwithout surrendering and without fighting?AMURAI ZEN: THE WARRIOR KOANS, TREVOR LEGGETT, 1985 Authority: Battles are won by slaughter and maneuver. The greater thegeneral, the more he contributes in maneuver, the less he demands inslaughter.... Nearly all the battle swhich are regarded as masterpieces of the military art...have been battles of maneuver in which very often theenemy has found himself defeated by some novel expedient or device,some queer, swift, unexpected thrust or stratagem. In such battles thelosses of the victors have been small.--Winston Churchill (1874-1965)REVERSALThere is neither point nor honor in seeking direct battle for its own sake. Thatkind of fighting, however, may have value as part of a maneuver or strategy. Asudden envelopment or powerful frontal blow when the enemy is least expectingit can be crushing.The only danger in maneuver is that you give yourself so many options thatyou yourself get confused. Keep it simple--limit yourself to the options you cancontrol. NEGOTIATE WHILE ADVANCINGTHE DIPLOMATIC-WAR STRATEGYPeople will always try to take from you in negotiation what they could not getfrom you in battle or direct confrontation. They will even use appeals to fairnessand morality as a cover to advance their position. Do not be taken in:negotiation is about maneuvering for power or placement, and you must alwaysput yourself in the kind of strong position that makes it impossible for the otherside to nibble away at you during your talks. Before and during negotiations,you must keep advancing, creating relentless pressure and compelling the otherside to settle on your terms. The more you take, the more you can give back inmeaningless concessions. Create a reputation for being tough anduncompromising, so that people are back on their heels before they even meetyou.WAR BY OTHER MEANSAfter Athens was finally defeated by Sparta in the Peloponnesian War of 404B.C., the great city-state fell into steady decline. In the decades that followed,many citizens, including the great orator Demosthenes, began to dream of arevival of the once dominant Athens.In 359 B.C. the king of Macedonia, Perdiccas, was killed in battle, and apower struggle emerged for his succession. The Athenians saw Macedonia as abarbaric land to the north, its only importance its proximity to Athenian outpoststhat helped secure their supplies of corn from Asia and of gold from local mines.One such outpost was the city of Amphipolis, a former Athenian colony, which,however, had lately fallen into Macedonian hands. A plan emerged among thepoliticians of Athens to support one of the claimants to the Macedonian throne (aman named Argaeus) with ships and soldiers. If he won, he would be indebted toAthens and would return to them the valuable city of Amphipolis.Unfortunately,