above the cloudshad been sighted and was warning them not to go into the jungle. He looked atwhat they were looking at and saw nothing. There were no colorful stories beingtold about this, no relation to any myth, just some villagers excitedly staring offinto empty space. They seemed to him like Boy Scouts on a camping trip, or agroup of hippies—a tribe that had somehow lost its own culture.This disappointment and unease coincided with frustration in his own work. This disappointment and unease coincided with frustration in his own work.He had made some progress with the language, but it seemed that the morewords and phrases he learned, the more questions and puzzles he uncovered. Hewould think that he had mastered a particular expression, only to find it meantsomething different or something larger than he had imagined. He could see thechildren learning the language so easily, but to him who now lived among them,it seemed beyond his reach. Then one day he experienced what he would laterrealize was a turning point.The thatch roof of his family’s hut needed replacing, and he decided to enlistsome villagers in the effort. Although he felt he had integrated himself into theirlives, he had never ventured very far into the surrounding jungles with the Pirahãmen. Finally, on this occasion he would go much farther than before to gatherthe necessary materials. Suddenly, during this trip, he saw an entirely differentside to them. While he was stomping and whacking his way through the brush,they seemed to glide through the thick jungle without being touched by a singlebranch. He was not able to keep up with them, and so he stopped and rested. Inthe distance he could hear strange sounds—the Pirahã men were clearlyspeaking to one another, but their words were somehow transposed into whistles.He realized that in the jungle they used this different form of communication,one that would not stand out from the jungle hum. It was a marvelous way totalk without attracting attention, and must have been a great help in hunting.Now he joined them on subsequent forays into the jungle, and his respect forthem increased. They could hear and see things he could not perceive at all—dangerous animals, signs of something different or suspicious. Occasionally, itwould rain when it was not the rainy season, and in the jungle they had a sixthsense for the weather and knew when a heavy rain was coming hours before itarrived. (They could even predict the arrival of a plane several hours in advance,although he never figured out how.) They could identify every plant and itspossible medicinal purposes, and knew every square inch of the jungle. If theysaw bubbles or ripples in the river, they could instantly tell whether themovement was from a falling rock or from some dangerous animal lurkingbelow the surface. They had a mastery of their environment that he could notsense by seeing them in the village. And as he became aware of this, he began tounderstand that their life and culture, which at first glance had seemed