different roles to suit the different environments we pass through.You are simply becoming more conscious of the process. Think of it as theater.By creating a persona that is mysterious, intriguing, and masterful, you areplaying to the public, giving them something compelling and pleasurable towitness. You are allowing them to project their fantasies onto you, or directingtheir attention to other theatrical qualities. In your private life, you can let themask fall. In this diverse, multicultural world, it is best that you learn how tomingle and blend into all types of environments, giving yourself maximumflexibility. You must take pleasure in creating these personas—it will make youa better performer on the public stage.3. See yourself as others see you Growing up with autism, Temple Grandin (see chapter 1, pages 43–45, for moreon this) had much to overcome in life, but by the end of high school she hadmanaged to transform herself—through keen desire and discipline—into a giftedstudent with a promising future in the sciences. She understood that her greatestweakness was in the social arena. With animals, she had almost telepathicpowers to read their moods and desires, but with humans it was the opposite.People were too tricky for her; they often seemed to communicate with oneanother through subtle, nonverbal cues—for instance, falling into patterns oflaughter in a group, according to some interpersonal rhythm she could notfathom. She felt as if she were an alien, watching these strange creatures interact.It seemed to her that there was nothing she could do about her awkwardnesswith people. What she could control, however, was her own work. She decidedshe would make herself so efficient in whatever job she had that her socialhandicap would not matter. But after graduating college with a degree in animalbehavior and entering the work world as a consultant in the design of feedlotsand cattle handling facilities, she realized, through a series of mistakes on herpart, that this was completely unrealistic.On one occasion, Grandin had been hired by the manager of a plant toimprove its overall design. She did an excellent job, but soon she began to noticethat the machinery was constantly breaking down, as if it were the fault of herdesign. She knew that the malfunctioning could not be because of any flaws inher work, and with further investigation she discovered that the machinery hadproblems only when a certain man was working in the room. The only possibleconclusion was that he was sabotaging the equipment to make her look bad. Thismade no sense to her—why would he deliberately work against the interests ofthe company that employed him? This was not a design problem she could solveintellectually. She simply had to give up and leave the job.On another occasion, a plant engineer had hired her to fix a particularproblem, but after a few weeks on the job she noticed that there were other partsof the factory that were very poorly designed and clearly dangerous. She wroteto the president of the company to point this out. Her tone in the letter was a bitbrusque, but she was