it hasan especially intensive political meaning. When a state fights its political enemy in the name of humanity, it is not a war for the sake of humanity, but awar wherein a particular state seeks to usurp a universal concept against itsmilitary opponent. At the expense of its opponent, it tries to identify itself withhumanity in the same way as one can misuse peace, justice, progress, andcivilization in order to claim these as one's own and to deny the same to theenemy. The concept of humanity is an especially useful ideological instrumentof imperialist expansion, and in its ethical-humanitarian form it is a specificvehicle of economic imperialism. Here one is reminded of a somewhatmodified expression of Proudhon's: whoever invokes humanity wants tocheat. To confiscate the word humanity, to invoke and monopolize such a termprobably has certain incalculable effects, such as denying the enemy thequality of being human and declaring him to be an outlaw of humanity; and awar can thereby be driven to the most extreme inhumanity.THE CONCEPT OF THE POLITICAL, CARL SCHMITT, 1932Once you realize you are under attack by a moral warrior using the exteriormaneuver, it is vital to keep control of your emotions. If you complain or lashout angrily, you just look defensive, as if you had something to hide. The moralwarrior is being strategic; the only effective response is to be strategic, too. Evenif you know that your cause is just, you can never assume that the public sees itthe same way. Appearances and reputation rule in today's world; letting theenemy frame these things to its liking is akin to letting it take the most favorableposition on the battlefield. Once the fight for moral terrain has begun, you mustfight to occupy the high ground in the same way you would in a shooting war.Like any form of warfare, moral conflict has both offensive and defensivepossibilities. When you are on the offense, you are actively working to destroythe enemy's reputation. Before and during the American Revolution, the greatpropagandist Samuel Adams took aim at England's reputation for being fair-minded, liberal, and civilized. He poked holes in this moral image by publicizingEngland's exploitation of the colonies' resources and simultaneous exclusion oftheir people from democratic processes. The colonists had had a high opinion ofthe English, but not after Adams's relentless campaign.To succeed, Adams had to resort to exaggeration, picking out andemphasizing the cases in which the English were heavy-handed. His was not abalanced picture; he ignored the ways in which the English had treated thecolonies rather well. His goal was not to be fair but to spark a war, and he knewthat the colonists would not fight unless they saw the war as just and the Britishas evil. In working to spoil your enemy's moral reputation, do not be subtle.Make your language and distinctions of good and evil as strong as possible; speak in terms of black and white. It is hard to get people to fight for a gray area.Revealing your opponent's hypocrisies is perhaps the most lethal offensiveweapon in