we cannot help the way we are. Wehave aggressive impulses that are impossible to ignore or repress. In the past,individuals could expect a group--the state, an extended family, a company--to take care of them, but this is no longer the case, and in this uncaring world wehave to think first and foremost of ourselves and our interests. What we need arenot impossible and inhuman ideals of peace and cooperation to live up to, andthe confusion that brings us, but rather practical knowledge on how to deal withconflict and the daily battles we face. And this knowledge is not about how to bemore forceful in getting what we want or defending ourselves but rather how tobe more rational and strategic when it comes to conflict, channeling ouraggressive impulses instead of denying or repressing them. If there is an ideal toaim for, it should be that of the strategic warrior, the man or woman whomanages difficult situations and people through deft and intelligent maneuver.[Strategy] is more than a science: it is the application of knowledge topractical life, the development of thought capable of modifying the originalguiding idea in the light of ever-changing situations; it is the art of actingunder the pressure of the most difficult conditions.HELMUTH VON MOLTKE, 1800-1891Many psychologists and sociologists have argued that it is through conflictthat problems are often solved and real differences reconciled. Our successes andfailures in life can be traced to how well or how badly we deal with theinevitable conflicts that confront us in society. The common ways that peopledeal with them--trying to avoid all conflict, getting emotional and lashing out,turning sly and manipulative--are all counterproductive in the long run, becausethey are not under conscious and rational control and often make the situationworse. Strategic warriors operate much differently. They think ahead towardtheir long-term goals, decide which fights to avoid and which are inevitable,know how to control and channel their emotions. When forced to fight, they doso with indirection and subtle maneuver, making their manipulations hard totrace. In this way they can maintain the peaceful exterior so cherished in thesepolitical times.This ideal of fighting rationally comes to us from organized warfare, wherethe art of strategy was invented and refined. In the beginning, war was not at allstrategic. Battles between tribes were fought in a brutal manner, a kind of ritualof violence in which individuals could display their heroism. But as tribesexpanded and evolved into states, it became all too apparent that war had toomany hidden costs, that waging it blindly often led to exhaustion and self-destruction, even for the victor. Somehow wars had to be fought more rationally.The word "strategy" comes from the ancient Greek word strategos, meaningliterally "the leader of the army." Strategy in this sense was the art of generalship, of commanding the entire war effort, deciding what formations todeploy, what terrain to fight on, what maneuvers to use to gain an edge. And asthis knowledge progressed, military leaders discovered that the more theythought and planned ahead, the more possibilities they had for success. Novelstrategies