closer than we think to such intelligence. (The word“genius” comes from the Latin, and originally referred to a guardian spirit thatwatched over the birth of each person; it later came to refer to the innatequalities that make each person uniquely gifted.)Although we may find ourselves at a historical moment rich in possibilitiesfor mastery, in which more and more people can move toward their inclinations,we in fact face one last obstacle in attaining such power, one that is cultural andinsidiously dangerous: The very concept of mastery has become denigrated,associated with something old-fashioned and even unpleasant. It is generally notseen as something to aspire to. This shift in value is rather recent, and can betraced to circumstances peculiar to our times.We live in a world that seems increasingly beyond our control. Ourlivelihoods are at the whim of globalized forces. The problems that we face—economic, environmental, and so on—cannot be solved by our individualactions. Our politicians are distant and unresponsive to our desires. A naturalresponse when people feel overwhelmed is to retreat into various forms ofpassivity. If we don’t try too much in life, if we limit our circle of action, we cangive ourselves the illusion of control. The less we attempt, the less chances offailure. If we can make it look like we are not really responsible for our fate, forwhat happens to us in life, then our apparent powerlessness is more palatable.For this reason we become attracted to certain narratives: it is genetics thatdetermines much of what we do; we are just products of our times; the individualis just a myth; human behavior can be reduced to statistical trends.Many take this change in value a step further, giving their passivity apositive veneer. They romanticize the self-destructive artist who loses control ofhim- or herself. Anything that smacks of discipline or effort seems fussy andpassé: what matters is the feeling behind the artwork, and any hint ofcraftsmanship or work violates this principle. They come to accept things thatare made cheaply and quickly. The idea that they might have to expend mucheffort to get what they want has been eroded by the proliferation of devices thatdo so much of the work for them, fostering the idea that they deserve all of this—that it is their inherent right to have and to consume what they want. “Whybother working for years to attain mastery when we can have so much powerwith very little effort? Technology will solve everything.” This passivity haseven assumed a moral stance: “mastery and power are evil; they are the domainof patriarchal elites who oppress us; power is inherently bad; better to opt out ofthe system altogether,” or at least make it look that way.If you are not careful, you will find this attitude infecting you in subtle ways. You will unconsciously lower your sights as to what you can accomplish in life.This can diminish your levels of effort and discipline below the point ofeffectiveness. Conforming to social norms, you will listen more to others than toyour own voice. You may choose a