because they feared their own heart, but of what use is it to fear it without ﬁnding a better remedy? Many are endowed by Nature with a heart so true that it always warns them of misfortune and wards oﬀ its eﬀects. It is unwise to seek evils, unless you seek to conquer them. clxxix Reticence is the Seal of Capacity . A breast without a secret is an open letter. Where there is a solid foundation secrets can be kept profound: there are spacious cellars where things of moment may be hid. Reticence springs from self-control, and to control oneself in this is a true triumph. Y ou must pay ransom to each you tell. The security of wisdom consists in temperance in the inner man. The risk that reticence runs lies in the cross-questioning of others, in the use of contradiction to worm out secrets, in the darts of irony: to avoid these the prudent become more reticent than before. What must be done need not be said, and what must be said need not be done. clxxx Never guide the Enemy to what he has to do. The fool never does what the wise judge wise, because he does not follow up the suitable means. He that is discreet follows still less a plan laid out, or even carried out, by another. One has to discuss matters from both points of view--turn it over on both sides. Judgments vary; let him that has not decided attend rather to what is possible than what is probable. clxxxi The Truth, but not the whole Truth. Nothing demands more caution than the truth: 'tis the lancet of the heart. It requires as much to tell the truth as to conceal it. A single lie destroys a whole reputation for integrity . The deceit is regarded as treason and the deceiver as a traitor, which is worse. Y et not all truths can be spoken: some for our own sake, others for the sake of others. clxxxii A Grain of Boldness in Everything. 'Tis an important piece of prudence. Y ou must moderate your opinion of others so that you may not think so high of them as to fear them. The imagination should never yield to the heart. Many appear great till you know them personally , and then dealing with them does more to disillusionise than to raise esteem. No one o'ersteps the narrow bounds of humanity: all have their weaknesses either in heart or head. Dignity gives apparent authority , which is rarely accompanied by personal power: for Fortune often redresses the height of oﬃce by the inferiority of the holder. The imagination always jumps too soon, and paints things in brighter colours than the real: it thinks things not as they are but as it wishes them to be. Attentive experience disillusionised in the past soon corrects all that. Y et if wisdom should not be timorous, neither should folly be rash. And if self-reliance helps the