It may also possess you completely. Whatever; eventually itwill out. It makes its claim…. Extraordinary people display calling most evidently. Perhapsthat’s why they fascinate. Perhaps, too, they are extraordinary because their calling comesthrough so clearly and they are so loyal to it…. Extraordinary people bear the better witnessbecause they show what ordinary mortals simply can’t. We seem to have less motivation andmore distraction. Yet our destiny is driven by the same universal engine. Extraordinarypeople are not a different category; the workings of this engine in them are simply moretransparent….—JAMES HILLMAN IISUBMIT TO REALITY: THE IDEALAPPRENTICESHIPAfter your formal education, you enter the most critical phase in your life—a second,practical education known as The Apprenticeship. Every time you change careers or acquirenew skills, you reenter this phase of life. The dangers are many. If you are not careful, youwill succumb to insecurities, become embroiled in emotional issues and conflicts that willdominate your thoughts; you will develop fears and learning disabilities that you will carrywith you throughout your life. Before it is too late you must learn the lessons and follow thepath established by the greatest Masters, past and present—a kind of Ideal Apprenticeshipthat transcends all fields. In the process you will master the necessary skills, discipline yourmind, and transform yourself into an independent thinker, prepared for the creativechallenges on the way to mastery. THE FIRST TRANSFORMATIONFrom early in his life, Charles Darwin (1809–82) felt the presence of his fatherbearing down on him. The father was a successful and wealthy country doctorwho had high hopes for his two sons. But Charles, the youngest, seemed to bethe one who was less likely to meet his expectations. He was not good at Greekand Latin, or algebra, or really anything in school. It wasn’t that he lackedambition. It was just that learning about the world through books did not interesthim. He loved the outdoors—hunting, scouring the countryside for rare breeds ofbeetles, collecting flower and mineral specimens. He could spend hoursobserving the behavior of birds and taking elaborate notes on their variousdifferences. He had an eye for such things. But these hobbies did not add up to acareer, and as he got older he could sense his father’s growing impatience. Oneday, his father rebuked him with words Charles would never forget: “You carefor nothing but shooting, dogs, and rat-catching, and you will be a disgrace toyourself and all your family.”When Charles turned fifteen, his father decided to become more activelyinvolved in his life. He sent him off to medical school in Edinburgh, but Charlescould not stand the sight of blood and so had to drop out. Determined to findsome career for him, the father then secured for his son a future position in thechurch as a country parson. For this Charles would be well paid, and he wouldhave plenty of spare time to pursue his mania for collecting specimens. The onlyrequirement for such a position was a degree from an eminent university, and soCharles was enrolled at Cambridge. Once again, he had to confront hisdisinterest in formal