a lifelong habit. As much as possible, you try to apply your knowledge insome form of experiment or practice. You find for yourself second-degreementors in the form of public figures who can serve as role models. Reading andreflecting on their experiences, you can gain some guidance. You try to maketheir ideas come to life, internalizing their voice. As someone self-taught, youwill maintain a pristine vision, completely distilled through your ownexperiences—giving you a distinctive power and path to mastery.To learn by example is to submit to authority. You follow your master because you trust hismanner of doing things even when you cannot analyze and account in detail for itseffectiveness. By watching the master and emulating his efforts … the apprenticeunconsciously picks up the rules of the art, including those which are not explicitly known tothe master himself.—MICHAEL POLANYI IVSEE PEOPLE AS THEY ARE: SOCIALINTELLIGENCEOften the greatest obstacle to our pursuit of mastery comes from the emotional drain weexperience in dealing with the resistance and manipulations of the people around us. If weare not careful, our minds become absorbed in endless political intrigues and battles. Theprincipal problem we face in the social arena is our naïve tendency to project onto peopleour emotional needs and desires of the moment. We misread their intentions and react inways that cause confusion or conflict. Social intelligence is the ability to see people in themost realistic light possible. By moving past our usual self-absorption, we can learn to focusdeeply on others, reading their behavior in the moment, seeing what motivates them, anddiscerning any possible manipulative tendencies. Navigating smoothly the socialenvironment, we have more time and energy to focus on learning and acquiring skills.Success attained without this intelligence is not true mastery, and will not last. THINKING INSIDEIn 1718, Benjamin Franklin (1706–90) went to work as an apprentice in hisbrother James’s printing shop in Boston. His dream was to transform himselfinto a great writer. At the printing shop he would not only be taught how tohandle the machines, but also how to edit manuscripts. Surrounded by books andnewspapers, he would have plenty of examples of good writing to study andlearn from. It would be the perfect position for him.As the apprenticeship progressed, the literary education he had imagined forhimself came to pass, and his writing skills improved immensely. Then, in 1722,it seemed that he would finally have the perfect opportunity to prove himself as awriter—his brother was about to launch his own large-scale newspaper calledThe New-England Courant. Benjamin approached James with several interestingideas for stories he could write, but to his great disappointment, his brother wasnot interested in his contributing to the new paper. This was a serious venture,and Benjamin’s work was too immature for The Courant.Benjamin knew it was pointless to argue with James; he was a very stubbornyoung man. But as he thought about the situation, an idea suddenly came to him:what if he were to create a fictional character who would write letters to TheCourant? If he wrote them well enough, James would never suspect