temporary threat by a rival power, and he quickly abandoned the pass. But theAthenians had had enough--they had been humiliated. Time and time again,Philip had used negotiations and treaties to cover nefarious advances. He wasnot honorable. He might have abandoned Thermopylae, but it did not matter: hewas always taking control over larger territories, then making himself lookconciliatory by giving some of his acquisitions back--but only some, and heoften retook the conceded lands later anyway. The net effect was inevitably toenlarge his domain. Mixing war with deceptive diplomacy, he had slowly madeMacedonia the dominant power in Greece.Demosthenes and his followers were now on the ascendant. The Peace ofPhilocrates was obviously a disgrace, and everyone involved in it was thrownout of office. The Athenians began to make trouble in the country to the east ofAmphipolis, trying to secure more outposts there, even provoking quarrels withMacedonia. In 338 B.C. they engaged in an alliance with Thebes to prepare for agreat war against Philip. The two allies met the Macedonians in battle atChaeronea, in central Greece--but Philip won the battle decisively, his sonAlexander playing a key role.Now the Athenians were in panic: barbarians from the north were about todescend on their city and burn it to the ground. And yet again they were provedwrong. In a most generous peace offer, Philip promised not to invade Athenianlands. In exchange he would take over the disputed outposts in the east, andAthens would become an ally of Macedonia. As proof of his word, Philipreleased his Athenian prisoners from the recent war without asking for paymentof any ransom. He also had his son Alexander lead a delegation to Athensbearing the ashes of all the Athenian soldiers who had died at Chaeronea.Overwhelmed with gratitude, the Athenians granted citizenship to bothAlexander and his father and erected a statue of Philip in their agora.Lord Aberdeen, the British ambassador to Austria, proved even easier to dealwith. Only twenty-nine years old, barely able to speak French, he was not amatch for a diplomat of Metternich's subtlety. His stiffness and self-confidence only played into Metternich's hands. "Metternich is extremelyattentive to Lord Aberdeen," reported Cathcart. The results were not longdelayed. Metternich had once described the diplomat's task as the art ofseeming a dupe, without being one, and he practised it to the fullest on thehigh-minded Aberdeen. "Do not think Metternich such a formidablepersonage...," Aberdeen wrote to Castlereagh. "Living with him at all times...,is it possible I should not know him? If indeed he were the most subtle ofmankind, he might certainly impose on one little used to deceive, but this is not his character. He is, I repeat it to you, not a very clever man. He isvain...but he is to be trusted...." For his mixture of condescension andgullibility, Aberdeen earned himself Metternich's sarcastic epithet as the"dear simpleton of diplomacy."A WORLD RESTORED, HENRY KISSINGER, 1957Later that year Philip convened a congress of all the Greek city-states(except for Sparta, which refused to attend) to discuss an alliance to form whatwould be called the Hellenic League. For