FIVE RINGS, TRANSLATED AND COMMENTARY BY HIDY OCHIAI, 2001The following year Edward's son, Edward III, negotiated a peace with theScots, granting Scotland its independence and recognizing Robert the Bruce asits rightful king.InterpretationThe English thought they could move on Scotland with impunity anytime theywanted. The Scots were poorly equipped, and their leadership was bitterlydivided: seeing such weakness, what could prevent English conquest? Trying tostop what seemed inevitable, Robert the Bruce evolved a novel strategy. Whenthe English attacked, he did not take them on directly; he would have lost.Instead he hit them indirectly but where it hurt, doing exactly to the Englishwhat they were doing to him: ruining his country. He continued to play tit for tatuntil the English understood that every time they attacked Scotland, they wouldget a bloody nose in exchange: they would lose valuable farmland, be harassed,fight in abysmal conditions. They slowly lost their hunger for the fight, thenfinally gave up.The essence of this deterrence strategy is the following: when someoneattacks you or threatens you, you make it clear that he will suffer in return. He--or she--may be stronger, he may be able to win battles, but you will make himpay for each victory. Instead of taking him on directly, you hurt something hevalues, something close to home. You make him understand that every time hebothers you he can expect damage, even if on a smaller scale. The only way tomake you stop attacking him in your irritating fashion is for him to stopattacking you. You are like a wasp on his skin: most people leave wasps alone. 3. One morning in 1474, King Louis XI (1423-83)--France's infamous "SpiderKing," so named because he always wove the most intricate and well-conceivedplots against his enemies--went into a vehement rant against the Duke of Milan.The courtiers present that January day listened in amazement as the normallycomposed and careful king spun out his suspicions: although the duke's fatherhad been a friend, the son could not be trusted; he was working against France,breaking the treaty between the two countries. On and on the king went: perhapshe would have to take action against the duke. Suddenly, to the courtiers' dismay,a man slipped quietly out of the room. It was Christopher da Bollate, theMilanese ambassador to France. Bollate had been received graciously by theking earlier that morning but then had retreated into the background; Louis must have forgotten he was there. The king's diatribe could cause quite a diplomaticmess.Once, when a group of five or six pages were traveling to the capital togetherin the same boat, it happened that their boat struck a regular ship late atnight. Five or six seamen from the ship leapt aboard and loudly demandedthat the pages give up their boat's anchor, in accord with the seaman's code.Hearing this, the pages ran forward yelling, "The seaman's code is somethingfor people like you! Do you think that we samurai are going to let you takeequipment from a boat carrying warriors? We will cut you down and throwyou into the sea to the last