fact.[Julius Caesar] could not have done what he did without it. The speech inwhich it is always said he quelled a mutiny with a single word, calling hismen not fellow-soldiers as was his custom, but citizens, civilians, shows agreat deal more about his methods than the mere clever use of a term. It wasa most critical moment for him. He was in Rome after Pompey's defeat, onthe point of sailing for Africa, to put down the powerful senatorial armythere. In the city he was surrounded by bitter enemies. His whole dependencewas his army, and the best and most trusted legion in it mutinied. They nearlykilled their officer; they marched to Rome and claimed their discharge; theywould serve Caesar no longer. He sent for them, telling them to bring theirswords with them, a direction perfectly characteristic of him. Everything toldof him shows his unconcern about danger to himself. Face to face with them,he asked them to state their case and listened while they told him all they haddone and suffered and been poorly rewarded for, and demanded to be discharged. His speech in answer was also characteristic, very gentle, verybrief, exactly to the point: "You say well, citizens. You have worked hard--youhave suffered much. You desire your discharge. You have it. I discharge youall. You shall have your recompense. It shall never be said of me that I madeuse of you when I was in danger, and was ungrateful to you when danger waspast." That was all, yet the legionaries listening were completely broken tohis will. They cried out that they would never leave him; they implored him toforgive them, to receive them again as his soldiers. Back of the words was hispersonality, and although that can never be recaptured, something of it yetcomes through the brief, bald sentences: the strength that faced tranquillydesertion at a moment of great need; the pride that would not utter a word ofappeal or reproach; the mild tolerance of one who knew men and countedupon nothing from them.THE ROMAN WAY, EDITH HAMILTON, 1932In the midst of this general unease, Czar Alexander I of Russia (1777-1825)suddenly proposed a plan that to many seemed a cure more dangerous than thedisease. The Russian army was the largest and most feared in Europe; Alexanderwanted to send it to both Spain and Naples, crushing the two rebellions. Inexchange he would insist that the kings of both realms enact liberal reforms thatwould grant their citizens greater freedoms, making them more content anddiluting their desire for revolution.Alexander saw his proposal as more than a practical program to safeguardEurope's monarchies; it was part of a great crusade, a dream he had nurturedsince the earliest days of his reign. A deeply religious man who saw everythingin terms of good and evil, he wanted the monarchies of Europe to reformthemselves and create a kind of Christian brotherhood of wise, gentle rulers withhimself, the czar, at their helm. Although the powerful considered Alexander akind of Russian madman, many liberals and even revolutionaries throughoutEurope saw him as