istorment. Meanwhile, as they strain to figure out what you are up to, they wastevaluable time and resources.During the World War II desert battles in North Africa, the Englishlieutenant Dudley Clarke ran a campaign to deceive the Germans. One of histactics was to use props--dummy tanks and artillery--to make it impossible forthe Germans to figure out the size and location of the English army. From high-flying reconnaissance aircraft, these dummy weapons would photograph like thereal thing. A prop that worked particularly well was the fake airplane made ofwood; Clarke dotted bogus landing fields filled up with rows of these around thelandscape. At one point a worried officer told him that intelligence had beenintercepted revealing that the Germans had figured out a way to distinguish thefake planes from the real ones: they simply looked for the wooden struts holdingup the wings of the dummy planes (enlarged photos could reveal this). Theywould now have to stop using the dummies, said the officer. But Clarke, one ofthe great geniuses of modern deception, had a better idea: he decided to putstruts under the wings of real aircraft as well as phony ones. With the originaldeception, the Germans were confused but could eventually uncover the truth.Now, however, Clarke took the game to a higher level: the enemy could notdistinguish the real from the fake in general, which was even moredisconcerting.If you are trying to mislead your enemies, it is often better to concoctsomething ambiguous and hard to read, as opposed to an outright deception--thatdeception can be uncovered and enemies can turn their discovery to theiradvantage, especially if you think they are still fooled and act under that belief.You are the one doubly deceived. By creating something that is simplyambiguous, though, by making everything blurry, there is no deception touncover. They are simply lost in a mist of uncertainty, where truth and falsehood,good and bad, all merge into one, and it is impossible to get one's bearingsstraight. Authority: One who is good at combating the enemy fools it withinscrutable moves, confuses it with false intelligence, makes it relax byconcealing one's strength,...deafens its ears by jumbling one's orders andsignals, blinds its eyes by converting one's banners andinsignias,...confounds its battle plan by providing distorted facts.--Tou Bi Fu Tan, A Scholar's Dilettante Remarks on War (16th century A.D.)Appearance and intention inevitably ensnare people when artfully used, evenif people sense that there is an ulterior intention behind the overt appearance.When you set up ploys and opponents fall for them, then you win by lettingthem act on your ruse. As for those who do not fall for a ploy, when you seethey won't fall for the open trap, you have another set. Then even if opponentshaven't fallen for your original ploy, in effect they actually have.FAMILY BOOK ON THE ART OF WAR, YAGYU MUNENORI, 1571-1646REVERSALTo be caught in a deception is dangerous. If you don't know that your cover isblown, now, suddenly, your enemies have more information than you do and youbecome their tool. If the discovery of your deceit is