talents and capacity , in judgment and inclination. Y ou cannot master yourself unless you know yourself. There are mirrors for the face but none for the mind. Let careful thought about yourself serve as a substitute. When the outer image is forgotten, keep the inner one to improve and perfect. Learn the force of your intellect and capacity for aﬀairs, test the force of your courage in order to apply it, and keep your foundations secure and your head clear for everything. xc The Secret of Long Life Lead a good life. T wo things bring life speedily to an end: folly and immorality . Some lose their life because they have not the intelligence to keep it, others because they have not the will. Just as virtue is its own reward, so is vice its own punishment. He who lives a fast life runs through life in a double sense. A virtuous life never dies. The ﬁrmness of the soul is communicated to the body , and a good life is long not only in intention but also in extension. xci Never set to work at anything if you have any doubts of its Prudence. A suspicion of failure in the mind of the doer is proof positive of it in that of the onlooker, especially if he is a rival. If in the heat of action your judgment feels scruples, it will afterwards in cool reﬂection condemn it as a piece of folly . Action is dangerous where prudence is in doubt: better leave such things alone. Wisdom does not trust to probabilities; it always marches in the mid-day light of reason. How can an enterprise succeed which the judgment condemns as soon as conceived? And if resolutions passed nem. con. by inner court often turn out unfortunately , what can we expect of those undertaken by a doubting reason and a vacillating judgment? xcii Transcendant Wisdom. I mean in everything. The ﬁrst and highest rule of all deed and speech, the more necessary to be followed the higher and more numerous our posts, is: an ounce of wisdom is worth more than tons of cleverness. It is the only sure way , though it may not gain so much applause. The reputation of wisdom is the last triumph of fame. It is enough if you satisfy the wise, for their judgment is the touchstone of true success. xciii V ersatility . A man of many excellences equals many men. By imparting his own enjoyment of life to his circle he enriches their life. V ariety in excellences is the delight of life. It is a great art to proﬁt by all that is good, and since Nature has made man in his highest development an abstract of herself, so let Art create in him a true microcosm by training his taste and intellect. xciv Keep the extent of your Abilities unknown. The wise man does not allow his knowledge and abilities to be sounded to the