ideas that follow are based on their experience and hard-won victories.Think of these ideas as exercises, ways to toughen your mind, each a kind ofcounterbalance to emotion's overpowering pull. Expose yourself to conflict. George S. Patton came from one of America's mostdistinguished military families--his ancestors included generals and colonelswho had fought and died in the American Revolution and the Civil War. Raised on stories of their heroism, he followed in their footsteps and chose a career inthe military. But Patton was also a sensitive young man, and he had one deepfear: that in battle he would turn coward and disgrace the family name.Patton had his first real taste of battle in 1918, at the age of thirty-two,during the Allied offensive on the Argonne during World War I. He commandeda tank division. At one point during the battle, Patton managed to lead someAmerican infantrymen to a position on a hilltop overlooking a key strategictown, but German fire forced them to take cover. Soon it became clear that theywere trapped: if they retreated, they would come under fire from positions on thesides of the hill; if they advanced, they would run right into a battery of Germanmachine guns. If they were all to die, as it seemed to Patton, better to dieadvancing. At the moment he was to lead the troops in the charge, however,Patton was stricken by intense fear. His body trembled, and his legs turned tojelly. In a confirmation of his deepest fears, he had lost his nerve.At that instant, looking into the clouds beyond the German batteries, Pattonhad a vision: he saw his illustrious military ancestors, all in their uniforms,staring sternly down at him. They seemed to be inviting him to join theircompany--the company of dead war heroes. Paradoxically, the sight of these menhad a calming effect on the young Patton: calling for volunteers to follow him,he yelled, "It is time for another Patton to die!" The strength had returned to hislegs; he stood up and charged toward the German guns. Seconds later he fell, hitin the thigh. But he survived the battle.From that moment on, even after he became a general, Patton made a pointof visiting the front lines, exposing himself needlessly to danger. He testedhimself again and again. His vision of his ancestors remained a constantstimulus--a challenge to his honor. Each time it became easier to face down hisfears. It seemed to his fellow generals, and to his own men, that no one had morepresence of mind than Patton. They did not know how much of his strength wasan effort of will.The story of Patton teaches us two things. First, it is better to confront yourfears, let them come to the surface, than to ignore them or tamp them down. Fearis the most destructive emotion for presence of mind, but it thrives on theunknown, which lets our imaginations run wild. By deliberately putting yourselfin situations where you have to face fear, you familiarize yourself with it andyour anxiety grows less acute. The sensation of overcoming a deep-rooted