an advantage to one side, the other's interest must be to wait. But an absolute balance of forces cannot bring about a standstill, for if such a balance should exist the initiative would necessarily belong to the side with the positive purpose-the attacker. One could, however, conceive of a state of balance in which the side with the positive aim ( the side with the stronger grounds for action) was the one that had the weaker forces. The balance would then result from the combined effects of aim and strength. Were that the case, one would have to say that unless some shift in the balance were in prospect the two sides should make peace. If, however, some alteration were to be foreseen, only one side could expect to gain by it-a fact which ought to stimulate the other into action. Inaction clearly cannot be explained by the concept of balance. The only explanation is that both are waiting for a better time to act. Let us suppose, therefore, that one of the two states has a positive aim? say, the conquest of a part of the other's territory, to use for bargaining at the peace table. Once the prize is in its hands, the political object has been achieved; there is no need to do more, and it can let matters rest. If the other state is ready to accept the situation, it should sue for peace. If not, it must do something; and if it thinks it will be better organized for action in four weeks' time it clearly has an adequate reason for not taking action at once. But from that moment on, logic would seem to call for action by the other side-the object being to deny the enemy the time he needs for getting ready. Throughout all this I have assumed, of course, that both sides under? stand the situation perfectly. 14- CONTINUITY Wourn THus BE BROUGHT ABOUT IN MILITARY ACTION AND wOULD AGAIN INTENSIFY EVERYTHING If this continuity were really to exist in the campaign its effect would again be to drive everything to extremes. Not only would such ceaseless activity arouse men's feelings and inject them with more passion and elemental strength, but events would follow more closely on each other and be gov? erned by a stricter causal chain. Each individual action would be more impor? tant, and consequently more dangerous. But war, of course, seldom if ever shows such continuity. In numerous conflicts only a very small part of the time is occupied by action, while the rest is spent in inactivity. This cannot always be an anomaly. Suspension of action in war must be possible; in other words, it is not a contradiction in terms. Let me demonstrate this point, and explain the reasons for it. 1 5. HERE A PRINCIPLE OF POLARITY Is PROPOSED By thinking that the interests of the two commanders are opposed in equal measure to each other, we have assumed a genuine polarity. A whole