for but in the former," I said. "For badness would never know virtue and itself-, while virtue in an educated nature will in time gain a e 410 a knowledge of both itself and badness simultaneously. This man, in my opinion, and not the bad one, becomes wise." "And I,''. he said, "share your opinion." "Will you set down a law in the city providing as well for an art of medicine such as we described along with such an art of judging, which will care for those of your citizens who have good natures in body and soul; while as for those who haven't, they'll let die the ones whose bod? ies are such, and the ones whose souls have bad natures and are in? curable, they themselves will kill?" "Well," he said, "that's the way it looked best for those who un? dergo it and for the city." "Then your young," I said, "will plainly beware of falling into need of the judge's art, since they use that simple music which we claimed engenders moderation." "Of course," he said. 410 a "Won't the musical man hunt for a gymnastic by following these b same tracks, and, if he wishes, catch it, so that he will require no art of medicine except in case of necessity?" "That's my opinion." "Moreover, he'll undergo these very exercises and labors looking less to strength than to the spirited part of his nature and for the purpose of arousing it, unlike the other kinds of contestants who treat diets and labors as means to force." "Quite right," he said. "Then, Glaucon," I said, "did those who established an education in music and gymnastic do so for other reasons than the one supposed c by some, that the latter should care for the body and the former for the soul?" "For what else, then?" he said. "It's likely/' I said, "that they established both chiefly for the soul." "How's that?" "Don't you notice," I said, "the turn of mind of those who main? tain a lifelong familiarity with gymnastic but don't touch music; or, again, that of those who do the opposite?" "What are you talking about?" he said. "Savageness and hardness on the one hand," I said, "softness and c tameness on the other." "I do notice," he said, "that those who make use of unmixed gym? nastic turn out more savage than they ought, while those who make use of music become in their turn softer than is fine for them." "And, surely," I said, "the savage stems from the spirited part of their nature, which, if rightly trained, would be courageous; but, if raised to a higher pitch than it ought to have, would be likely to be? come cruel and harsh." "That is my opinion," he said. "And what about this? Wouldn't the philosophic nature have the tame; and if it is relaxed somewhat more, would it be softer than it ought to be, while if it is finely reared,