cave. In what sense does the cave represent the human sit? uation with respect to education? The prisoners are said to be in bonds and forced to look at images of images-shadows on the wall of the cave. The lowest level of the line belongs to shadows and reflections, and the faculty which apprehends them is called imagination. This is the level of distorted and unclear images, and the faculty related to them is completely unreliable. To judge of images one must compare them to the things of which they are images. These latter are the things of which we have a natural consciousness-plants, animals, artifacts; etc.-the various manys of which we become aware through the senses. The faculty which apprehends them may be called trust, and it is the beginning point of knowledge We do not have sufficient knowledge of these things, nor can we explain how we know of them or how we_ are sure of their existence, but they are our entry into reality, the hints which lead us toward the causes or the ideas; the higher levels of the line are devoted to the explanation of _these phenomena. Our awareness of them is not perfectly sure, but a universal doubt of them would lead us into a void; it would leave us with nothing. It is called trust precisely because it resists doubt of the existence of what it apprehends. Knowl? edge or philosophy is the clarification and articulation of this natural con? sciousness. Imagination is no beginning point for knowledge because it cannot distinguish between what is merely a shadow, a distortion caused by the idiosyncrasies of our mental vision or those of the reflecting medium, and what is an accurate reflection of the objects. Only the awareness that an image is an image makes it possible to judge its true character, and in order to have that awareness imagina? tion must be aided by the faculty of trust. But who regularly beHeves Ihat images are real things; who mistakes reflections for what is reflected? Why does Socrates insist that oursituation is that of men who mistake images for realities? It would seem more sensible to say that we take objects too seriously, that we do not recognize the importance and superior reality of the causes or first prin? ciples. How can it be said that we are bound to the lowest level of the line? The answer seems to be that the cave is the city and that our attachment to the city binds us to certain authoritative opinions about things.We do not see men as they are but as they are represented to us by legislators and poets. A Greek sees things differently from the way a Persian sees them. One-need only think of the question of nakedness as discussed in Book V, or the significance of cows to Hindus as opposed to other men, to realize how powerful are the various horizons constituted by law or convention. Legislators and poets are the