the polis, although only half-consciously. Hencelthe ancient understanding of political things is taken as an imperfect prefiguration of the modem one rather than as an alternative to it-an alternative alien and not adequately known to us.\In this edition it will always be rendered "city," on the assumption that the phenomena the polis comprises can be comprehended by comparing the various uses of the word. Moreover, it should be borne in mind that words like "statesman" and "citizen" are based on the root polis. frhe citizen (polites) is litera1ly "one who belongs to the city," and the states? man (politikos) is "one who knows the things of the city."\Politics (politika) is merely "what has to do with the city." Thus, there is a unity of terminology which reflects the unity of life in the city.J Now the polis is given its character and its peculiar way of life is estab? lished by the organization of the city's diverse elements. The central political concern is the proper organization of a city, and the politeia is that organiza? tion; The politeia can largely be identified with the class of citizens who rule for they impress their way on the city and are the source of the laws. Th; politeia is, as it were, the soul of the city; he politeia is related to the individ? uals who compose the city as form is to matter\ The best English term for translating it is "regime," as in "the old regime." The book which describes the best political life is appropriately entitled "the regime," the only true or the best regime, just as the book of all books is entitled simply the Bible, the book. Such an approach to the political problem is characteristically Platonic, and an attempt to recover the Greek understanding of human things requires a consideration of the sense in which the politeia is the single most important political fact and the cause of men's characters and ways of life. The use of this word should, therefore, be followed attentively throughout this book. [Cf. Leo Strauss, Natural Right and History (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1953), pp. 135-139; and Harry V. Jaffa, "Aristotle," in Strauss and Cropsey, eds., History of Political Philosophy, (Chicago: Rand McNally, 1963), pp. 65-68.J 1. On the ]11sl is a subtitle which may have been added by later editors. It is not mentioned by Aristotle in his account of the Republic in the Politics (1261a ff.). 2. The Piraeus is the port of Athens, situated some six miles from the city. As the center of Athenian commerce, it was the place to find all the diversity and disorder that come from foreign lands. It was, therefore, the ap? propriate place in which to consider outlandish ways of life. Furthermore, it was a center of the democratic party. Sometime after the supposed date of the action of this dialogue (probably around 411 B.c.), in 404 B.c., the Piraeus was the stronghold of the resistance against the despotic group of