this law." "Is it your opinion," I said, "that we have placed dialectic at the top of the studies like a coping stone, and that no other study could rightly be set higher than this one, but that the treatment of the studies 535 a has already reached its end?" "Yes, it is my opinion," he said. "Well, then," I said, "the distribution is still ahead of you. To whom shall we give these studies and how shall we do it?" "That's plainly the next question," he said. "Do you remember, in the former selection of the rulers, what sort of men we selected?" "How could I not remember?" he said. "Well, then, so far as most of the requirements go, suppose that those are the natures that must be chosen," I said. "The steadiest and most courageous must be preferred and, insofar as possible, the best b. looking. But besides this, one must seek for men who are not only by disposition noble and tough, but who also possess those qualities in their nature that are conducive to this education." "What do. you determine them to be?" "Keenness at studies, you blessed man," I said, "is a prerequisite for them, and learning without difficulty. For souls, you know, are far more likely to be cowardly in severe studies than in gymnastic. The labor is closer to home in that it is the soul's privately and not shared in common with the body." "True," he said. b. "And, of course, a man with a memory and who is firm and wholly a lover of labor must be sought. Or in what way do you suppose anyone will be willing both to perform the labors of the body and to complete so much study and practice?" "No one would," he said, "unless he has an entirely good nature." "At any rate," I said, "the current mistake in philosophy-as a result of which, as we also said before, dishonor has befallen philosophy-is that men who aren't worthy take it up. Not bastards, but the genuine should have taken it up." "What do you mean?" he said. b. "In the first place," I said, "the man who is to take it up must not be lame in his love of labor, loving half the labor while having no taste for the other half This is the case when a man is a lover of gymnastic and the hunt and loves all the labor done by the body, while he isn't a lover of learning or of listening and isn't an inquirer, but hates the labor involved in all that. Lame as well is the man whose love of labor is directed exclusively to the other extreme." [ 214 ] "What you say is very true," he said. "And likewise with respect to truth," I said, "won't we class as maimed a soul that hates the willing lie, both finding it hard to endure in itself and becoming incensed when others lie, but is