the case with the anticipatory pleasures and pains arising from expectation of pleasures and pains that are going to be?" "Yes, it is." b. "Do you," I said, "know what sort of things they are and what they are most like?" "What?" he said. "Do you," I said, "hold that up, down, and middle are something in nature?" "I do." "Do you suppose that a man brought from the downward region to the middle would suppose anything else than that he was being brought up? And standing in the middle and looking away to the place from which he was brought, would he believe he was elsewhere than in the upper region since he hasn't seen the true up?" "No, by Zeus/' he said. "I don't suppose such a man would sup? pose otherwise." "And if he were brought back," I said, "would he suppose he was being brought down and suppose truly?" "Of course." "And wouldn't he undergo all this due to being inexperienced in what is truly above, in the middle, and below?" "Plainly." "Then would you be surprised, if those who are inexperienced in truth, as they have unhealthy opinions about many other things, so too they are disposed toward pleasure and pain and what's between them in such a way that, when they are brought to the painful, they suppose truly and are really in pain, but, when brought from the painful to the in? between, they seriously suppose they are nearing fulfillment and pleasure; and, as though out of lack of experience of white they looked from gray to black, out of lack of experience of pleasure they look from pain to the painless and are deceived?" "No, by Zeus," he said, "I wouldn't be surprised; I'd be far more so if this weren't the case." "Reflect on it this way," I said.- "Aren't hunger, thirst, and such things kinds of emptiness of the body's condition?" "Of course." "Aren't ignorance and imprudence in their tum emptiness of the soul's condition?" "Quite so." "And wouldn't the man who partakes of nourishment and the one who gets intelligence become full?" "Surely." "As to fullness, is the truer fullness that of a thing which is less or of one which is more." "Plainly that of one which is more." "Which of the classes do you believe participates more in pure being: the class of food, drink, seasoning, and nourishment in general, or the form of true opinion, knowledge, intelligence and, in sum, of all virtue? Judge it in this way: In your opinion which thing is more: one that is connected with something always the same, immortal and true, and is such itself and comes to be in such a thing; or one that is con? nected with something never the same and mortal, and is such itself and comes to be in such a thing?" "That," he said, "which is connected with what is always the same far exceeds." "And the being of that which is always