possibility of the regime, contributes to the depreciation of the city which was just begun by abandoning the question of its naturalness. He makes it clear that this regime which is to be brought into being will not be simply just. Justice itself exists more in speech than deed. After all of this effort, the product is admitted to be imperfect and not lovable for itself but because it is an imitation of justice. At the peak of the insistence that everything be given to the city, it becomes manifest that no city deserves such attention and that one must look beyond the city for the reality. This is a great disappointment and prepares the way for a transcendence of the city. (473c-487a) At last, however, Socrates allows the final wave-? the philosopher-kings-to roll in on them, and he introduces his own way of life into the city. It is no wonder that he hesitated to speak, for he asserts: Unless the philosophers rule as kings or those now called kings and chiefs genuinely and adequately philosophize, and political power and philosophy coincide in the same place, while the many natures now making their way to either apart from the other are by neces? sity excluded, there is no rest from ills for the cities, my dear Glaucon, nor I think for human kind, nor will the regime we have now described in speech ever come forth from nature, insofar as possible, and see the light of the sun. Socrates expects to l;>e drowned in tides of ridicule for this paradoxical assertion. Glaucon wholeheartedly agrees that this will be the case, and anticipates that the scorn will be mixed with anger. The laughter and indignation, which played so impbrtant a role in the discussion of the first two waves, reappear together here in a more intense form. It is, however, hard for modem men to be particularly shocked by Socrates' pronouncement; it seems much less comic or reprehensible to us than the other wwes. ]t is not that we would take the notion very seriously, but we are in some sense the heirs and beneficiaries of Soc? rates' work, even as we are the children of the Enlightenment which radicalized that work. Partly because Socrates and Plato were so ef? fective in arguing the usefulness of philosophy to civil society, and partly because the meaning of philosophy has changed, we no longer believe that there is a tension between philosophy and civil society. Al? though we might doubt whether philosophers have the gift of ruling, we do not consider the activity of philosophy to be pernicious to political concerns. Hence the notion of philosopher-kings is not in itself paradoxical for us. But, precisely because we take it for granted that the hatred of philosophy was merely prejudice, and that history has helped us to overcome that prejudice, we are in danger of missing the point which Socrates makes here. In order to understand this passage, we must see philosophy against