bursting into flame--either by preventing a man from doing what he wants with his property, or, alternatively, by instituting another law that resolves such cases." "What law?" "The one that takes second place to the former law and which compels the citizens to care for virtue. For if someone were to prescribe that most voluntary contracts are to be made at the con? tractor's own risk, the citizens would make money less shamelessly in the city and fewer evils of the kind we were just describing would grow in it." "Far fewer," he said. "But, as it is," I said, ''for all these reasons, the rulers in the city treat the ruled in this way. And as for themselves and their own, aren't their young luxurious and without taste for work of body or of soul, too soft to resist pleasures and pains, and too idle?" "What else could they be?" "And haven't they themselves neglected everything except money? making and.paid no more attention to virtue than the poor?" "Yes, they have." "When the rulers and the ruled, each prepared in this fashion, come alongside of each other---either wayfaring or in some other com? munity, on trips to religious festivals or in campaigns, becoming ship? mates or fellow soldiers, or even observing one another in dangers themselves-the p6or are now in no wise despised by the rich. Rather it is often the case that a lean, tanned poor man is ranged in battle next to a rich man, reared in the shade, surrounded by a great deal of alien flesh, and sees him panting and full of perplexity. Don't you suppose he believes that it is due to the vice of the poor that such men are rich, and when the poor meet in private, one passes the word to the other: 'Those men are ours. For they are nothing'?" "I certainly know very well;' he said, "that this is what they do." "Just as a sickly body needs only a slight push from outside to be? come ill, and sometimes even without any external influence becomes divided by factions within itself, so too doesntt a city that is in the same kind of condition as that body, on a small pretext-men brought in as allies from outside, from a city under an oligarchy, by the members of one party, from a city under a democracy by the members of the other-fall sick and do battle with itself, and sometimes even without any external influence become divided by faction?" "That is very much the case." "Then democracy, I suppose, comes into being when the poor win, killing some of the others and casting out some, and share the regime and the ruling offices with those who are left on an equal basis; and, for the most part, the offices in it are given by lot." "Yes," he said, "this is the establishment of democracy, whether it comes into being by arms or by the others' withdrawing due to fear." "In