then at the perfected man. The issue is in their relation: Can a per? fect man become and remain perfect in a perfect city? Is justice good for him? This is identical with the question: Is the city natural? For man, and hence the good man, is surely natural. Socrates and his companions experience greater difficulty in discerning justice than in discerning the other virtues. Justice, rather than far away in the heavens, is in a dark place at their feet. Even a cursory examination of what they find there reveals that justice is not necessary in this city. This is not too surprising, for the city came into being without justice being included in the specific way that courage, moderation, and wisdom were included. Indeed, when defined as each man doing his job or minding his own business, justice adds :n_othing to the city that is not accomplished by th.e other three virtues. The city needs wise men to command; it needs <;ourageous men to overcome resistance to the wise commands; and it needs moderation to bind the city together into a whole and maintain the proper hierarchy of its parts. But where does that leave justice? Justice disappears here, even as it did when Polemarchus asserted that justice consists of doing good to friends, only to discover that it is the various arts that do good to men. This seemed unsatisfactory because of the fact that the arts can do harm as well as good-a doctor can kill as well as cure-so that some? thing more than the arts is required. But now it appears that it is not justice which is necessary to supplement the arts; they need only belong to the proper order or whole. If the rulers are interested in the good of the whole city and its individuals, and if they command the artisans as to how they are to use their arts, nothing further is needed. Modera? tion, not justice, causes the artisans to obey the rulers. There is no tem? per or disposition of justice demanded of the citizens. Justice, in the city at least, means only the presence of the three other virtues. Nevertheless, minding one's own business is not an unilluminating formula for expressing what is ordinarily meant by justice. Justice seems to involve doing good to others, but the busybody or meddler is somehow an imperfect type. In this city, if each does what properly is his to do, he also does good to others. Each keeps and does his own while benefiting others. Moreover, the simplest sense of justice, that ex? pressed by Cephalus, is also satisfied here: obedience to the law is vin? dicated for the laws are good. Hence this city, in which justice is not a concern, meets the demands of justice . defined by Cephalus and Polemarchus who are its advocates. And in this city Thrasymachus will no longer be able to allege the same reasons for despising justice. He will soon join Socrates'