clothe the farmers in fine robes and hang gold on them and bid them work the earth at their pleasure, and how to make the potters recline before the fire, drinking in competition from left to right3 and feasting, and having their wheel set before them as often as they get a desire to make pots, and how to make all the others blessed in the same way just so the city as a whole may be happy. But don't give us this kind of advice, since, if we were to be persuaded by you, the farmer won't be a farmer, nor the potter a potter, nor wi11 anyone else assume any of those roles that go to make up a city. The argument has less weight for these others. That men should become poor menders of shoes, corrupted and pretending to be what they're not, isn't so terrible for a city. But you surely see that men who are not guardians of the laws and the city, but seem to be, utterly destroy an entire city, just as they alone are masters of the occasion to govern it we11 and to make it happy.' Now if we're making true guardians, men least likely to do harm to the city, and the one who made that speech is making some farmers and happy banqueters, like men at a public festival and not like members of a city, then he must be speaking of something other than a city. So we have to consider whether we are establishing the guardians looking to their having the most happiness. Or else, whether 1ooking to this happiness for the city as a who]e, we must see if it comes to be in the city, and must compel and persuade these auxiliaries and guardians to do the same, so that they']} be the best possible craftsmen at their jobs, and similarly for all the others, and, with the entire city growing thus and being fairly founded, we 111ust let nature assign to each of the groups its share of happiness." "You seem to me," he said, "to speak finely." "Then, will I," I said, "also seem to you to speak sensibly if I say what is akin to that?" "What exactly?" "Take the other craftsmen again and consider whether these things corrupt them so as to make them bad." "What are they?" "Wealth and poverty," I said. "How?" "Like this: in your opinion, will a potter who's gotten rich still be willing to attend to his art?" "Not at all," he said. "And will he become idler and more careless than he was?" "By far." "Doesn't he become a worse potter then?" "That, too, by far," he said. "And further, if from poverty he's not even able to provide him? self with tools or anything else for his art, he'll produce shoddier works, and he'll make worse craftsmen of his sons or any others he teaches." "Of course." "Then from both poverty and wealth the