in imagining the statesmen now ruling to be the sailors we were just now speaking of, and those who are said by them to be useless and gossipers about what's above to be the true pilots." "Quite right," he said. "Well, then, on this basis and under these conditions, it's not easy for the best pursuit to enjoy a good reputation with those who practice the opposite. But by far the greatest and most powerful slander8 comes to philosophy from those who claim to practice such things-those about whom you say philosophy's accuser asserts that, 'most of those who go to it are completely vicious and the most decent useless,' and I admitted that what you say is true. Isn't that so?" "Yes." "Haven't we gone through the cause of the uselessness of the de? cent ones?" "Yes indeed." "Do you want us next to go through the necessity of the viciousness of the many and to try to show, if we are able, that philoso? phy isn't to blame for that?" "Most certainly." "Then, let us begin our listening and speaking by reminding our? selves of the point at which we started our description of the kind of nature with which the man who is to be a gentleman is necessarily en- 489 b C d dowed. First, if it's present to your mind, truth guided him, and he had 49,0 to pursue it entirely and in every way or else be a boaster who in no way partakes of true philosophy." "Yes, that was said." "Now isn't this one point quite contrary to the opinions currently held about him?" "Very much so," he said. "So then, won't we make a sensible apology in saying that it is the nature of the real lover of learning to strive for what is; and he does not tarry by each of the many things opined to be but goes forward and SOCRATES/ADEIMANTUS ."?j THE REPUBL1c1 490 b C d e 491 a b does not lose the keenness of his passionate love nor cease from it before he grasps the nature itself of each thing which is with the part of the soul fit to grasp a thing of that sort; and it is the part akin to it that is fit. And once near it and coupled with what really is, having begotten intelligence and truth, he knows and lives truly, is nourished and so ceases from his labor pains, but not before."9 "Nothing," he said, "could be more sensible." "What then? Will this man have any part in caring for falsehood or, all to the contrary, will he hate it?'' ' "He'll hate it," he said. "If truth led the way, we. wouldn't, I suppose, ever assert a chorus10 of evils could follow it?" "Of course not." "But a healthy and just disposition, which is also accompanied by moderation." "Right," he said. "Why, then, must I also force the rest of the philosophic nature's chorus into order all over