of pipe for the herdsmen." "At least so our argument indicates," he said. "It's nothing new we're doing, my friend," I said, "in choosing Apollo and Apollo's instruments ahead of Marsyas and his instru? ments."47 "No, by Zeus," he said. "We don't look to me as though we were." "And, by the dog," I said, "unawares we've again purged the city that a while ago we said was luxurious." "That's a sign of our moderation," he said. "Come, then," I said, "and let's purge the rest. Now, following on harmonic modes would be our rule about rhythms: we mustn't seek subtle ones nor all sorts of feet, but we'll see which are the rhythms of an orderly and courageous life; and when we have seen them, we'll compel the foot and the tune to follow the speech of such a man, rather than the speech fo1lowing the foot and the tune. Whatever these rhythms might be is your job to tell, just as with the harmonic modes." "But, by Zeus, I can't say," he said. "There are three forms out of [ 78] which the feet are woven, just as there are four for sounds from which 400 a all the modes are compounded-this I've observed and could tell. But as to which sort are imitations of which sort of life, I can't say."48 "We'll consult with Damon49 too," I said, "about which feet are b appropriate for illiberality and insolence or madness and the rest of vice, and which rhythms must be left for their opposites. I think I heard him, but not clearly, naming a certain enoplion foot, which is a composite, and a dactyl and an heroic-I don't know how, but he ar- ranged it and presented it so that ifs equal up and down, passing into a short and a long; and, I think, he named one iambic and another trochaic and attached longs and shorts to them. With some of these I c think he blamed and praised the tempo of the foot no less than the rhythms themselves, or it was the two together-I can't say. But, as I said, let these things be turned over to Damon. To separate them out5o is no theme for a short argument. Or do you think so?"51 "Not I, by Zeus." "But you are able to determine that grace and gracelessness52 ac? company rhythm and lack of it?" "Of course." "Further, rhythm and lack of it follow the style, the one likening d itself to a fine style, the other to its opposite; and ifs the same with har- mony and lack of it, provided, that is, rhythm and harmonic mode follow speech, as we were just saying, and not speech them." "But, of course," he said, "they must accompany speech." "What about the manner of the style and the speech?" I said. "Don't they follow the disposition of the soul?" "Of course." "And the rest follow the style?" "Yes."" "Hence, good speech, good harmony, good grace,