human, all too human. He who obeys them, in reverence or in fear, is simply serving the advantage of the stronger, whether the stronger is a single man, or the great majority of the peo? ple, or any other politically relevant group within the city. If this be the case, however, prudence and self-interest would seem to dictate to the individual that either he should try to evade the law o else become the lawmaker himself. Thrasymachus' thesis is simply that the regime makes the laws and that the members of the regime look to their own good and not the common good. The city is not a unity but a composite of opposed parties, and the party which wins out over the others is the source of the law. There is no fundamental difference between tyranny and other regimes because they all have the same selfish end. Justice, therefore, is not a fundamental phenomenon; the lawgiver cannot base himself upon it, for justice is a result of law. Socrates does not deny that it is the stronger who rule and establish the law. He silently accepts the view that all existing regimes are as Thrasymachus says they are. The two men thus agree that the character of the ruling group is the core of politics, that the rulers are the stronger, and that justice is a political phenomenon and must be embodied in the laws of a city. The issue between them is whether all rulers, all lawgivers, must be selfish in the way Thrasymachus insists they are. From this point on the question is the regime-who rules; and Socrates tries to find a kind of man, a political class, which is both strong and public-spirited. Socrates turns, then, to the criticism of Thrasymachus' view of the rulers. He quickly succeeds in embarrassing him by the reflection that sometimes rulers make mistakes; hence obedience to the law may be as much to their disadvantage as their advantage. Justice is not the ad? vantage of the stronger unless the stronger (the rulers) know what their own advantage is. T-h:e.:.=em==ph- a:s..i:s.:..n.,o,-w:::.s:h.:i=fts--:f"r"o'm- =-s:t-r"eI"W'--;t-h;;i,t,o; knowledge. Socrates' question appears to refer to rulers' mistakes about the means to their ends, but could apply to mistakes about the proper ends of action. Socrates, then, is also asking whether the rulers really know what is advantageous and leads Thrasymachus into a region of profound problems on which he has hardly reflected. Like Polemar? chus, he takes it for granted that the most common objects of desire-particularly whatever has to do wealth-are advantageous and that knowledge of them is a given. T...hrasyma hus is the more thg_yght- ful voice of the most thoughtless opinions and desires. He teaches an art by means of which men can get those good things, and a mistaken ruler for him would be one who did not know the appropriate. means to the given ends. He wishes to educate a clever, selfish man who knows how to get what he wants. But,