wishes to show his audience the superiority of rhetoric. Moreover, Thrasymachus objects to the substance as well as the form of what he has just heard. Justice as doing good to others fits in we1l with the self-abnegation of. dialectic and is just as unsound. It is foolishness, the direct opposite of prudence, which causes a man to hold the position that justice is doing good to others while also sup? posing that it is good for the doer. Thrasymachus adopts the accents of moral indignation in the cause of immorality. He charges Socrates with wrongdoing, with deceiving other men; since Socrates' method is irony, he is a dissembler or a hypocrite. He imposes a higher good, in which he himself does not believe, and would cause men and cities to neglect their needs and interests. Thrasymachus wishes to punish Socrates, and, in a book teeming with allusions to Socrates' accusation and trial, Thrasymachus makes the most explicit condemnation of Socrates; his insistence that Soc? rates, if bested by Thrasymachus, propose an appropriate punishment for himself prefigures that fateful day when the condemned Socrates is forced by the Athenian law to propose his own penalty. To Thrasyma? chus, as he will to the Athenian jurors, Socrates claims that he has no money; and now, as they will then, his friends offer to provide him with the necessary funds. Thrasymachus and the city are both angry at Soc? rates for not accepting their point of view, which appears to be as clear as day. The terms of the two accusations seem to be different, but it soon becomes evident that Thrasymachus' definition of justice is really the same as the city's and that he acts as its representative. For, as soon as he asserts that the just is the advantage of the stronger, he ex? plains that by the "stronger" he means those who hold power in a city and constitute its sovereign, whether that sovereign consists of the peo? ple, the rich, the well-born, or a single man. The just is whatever the sovereign in its laws says is just. This is precisely what the city says, and Socrates is disloyal to both city and Thrasymachus in suggesting that justice goes beyond the law-that law may not even be necessary if wise men rule. This is a notion that is not only antilegal, but is, in par? ticular, antidemocratic, because it looks to the few wise rather than the many free. Thrasymachus insists that the decree of the sovereign is u1- [ 326 ] timate, and that there is no recourse beyond it, while Socrates insists that laws are just only to the extent they conform to a standard of justice superior to the laws and independent of the wishes of the sovereign. Thrasymachus' identification with the city's view of justice helps to explain his previously mentioned moral indignation in the cause of immorality, which also has its counterpart in the actions of the city. The city insists that its