that?" he said. "Doctors," I said, "would prove cleverest if, beginning in child? hood, in addition to learning the art, they should be familiar with very many and very bad bodies and should themselves suffer all diseases and not be quite healthy by nature. For I don't suppose they care for a body with a body-in that case it wouldn't be possible for the bodies them? selves ever to be, or to have been, bad-but for a body with a soul; and it's not possible for a soul to have been, and to be, bad and to care for anything well." "Correct," he said. "A judge, on the other hand, my friend, rules a soul with a soul, and it's not possible for it to have been reared and been familiar with bad souls from youth on, and to have gone through the list of all unjust deeds and to have committed them itself so as to be sharp at inferring from itself the unjust deeds of others like diseases in the body. Rather, 408a b C d e 409 a 409a b d it must have been inexperienced and untainted by bad dispositions when it was young, if, as a fine and good soul, it's going to make healthy judgments about what is just. This is exactly why decent men when they are young, look as though they were innocents61 and easil; deceived by unjust men, because they have in themselves no patterns of affections similar to those of bad men." "Yes, indeed," he said, "this is the very thing that happens to them." "That, you see, is why," I said, "the good judge must not be young but old, a late learner of what injustice is; he must not have become aware of it as kindred, dwelling in his own soul. Rather, having studied it as something alien in alien souls, over a long time, he has become thoroughly aware of how it is naturally bad, having made use of knowledge, not his own personal experience." "Well," he said, "a judge who's like that seems to be most noble." "And good, too," I said, "which is what you asked. The man who has a good soul is good. That clever and suspicious man, the one who has himself done many unjust things and supposes he's a master crim? inal and wise, looks dever, because he is on his guard, when he keeps company with his likes-taking his bearings by the patterns within himself. But when he has contact with good men who are older, he now looks stupid, distrustful out of season, and ignorant of a healthy disposition, because he does not possess a pattern for such a man. But since he meets bad men more often than good ones, he seems to be rather more wise than unlearned, both to himself and to others." "That is," he said, "quite certainly true." ''.Then it's not in such a man that the good and wise judge must be looked