moral Adeimantus is much more opposed to philosophy than is the victory-loving, erotic Glaucon. Thus, spiritedness, which protected the city's health, stands in the way of the development of the soul's theoretical capacities and hence its health. Socrates in this passage abstracts from all other aspects of spirited? ness and focuses solely on one of its functions-the control of desire. In so doing he makes explicit its political advantages and hints at the threat it poses to philosophy. The harmony of the parts of the soul is most ques? tionable. Socrates concludes that the soul has the same parts as the city and will be perfeGted by the same virtues. Thus the discussion of justice should be at an end; and Socrates does indeed try to tum to the discus? sion of injustice, which must be discerned if it is to be compared to justice. But, he will not be permitted to continue in that direction, for his interlocutors are not yet persuaded that it is desirable to be a mem? ber of this city, and want to know more about it. The identification of the good of the soul with that of the city has not been convincing to them. This is understandable, since it is purely formal to assert that a just soul is one in which each of its parts does its own work when one does not know the nature of those parts or precisely what their work is. It cannot be assumed merely that they exactly parallel the parts of the city and their work. Nothing as yet has indicated that the man who has a healthy soul will be identical with the citizen of the regime which has been establish? ed. Is the wise man, who makes full use of the powers of his reason, -the same as the prudent statesman, who issues commands to the war? riors and the artisans? Is his courage that of the warrior who holds the belief that what is good for the city is good for him, and is thus willing to die on the battlefield? Is his moderation that of an obedient subject, or that of a ruler who cares for the citizens and wishes to rule them for their good? And does his justice consist in doing some work which the city prescribes to him and is useful to it? Affirmative answers to all or any of these questions seem highly improbable. Glaucon's real ques? tion, however, was whether his happiness depended on being a good citizen, a law-abiding man. Socrates tries to give the impression that there is a harmony between the justice of the city and that of man by never suggesting that there might not be. But it is a glaring problem, and Socrates' mode of presentation has rendered it even more obtrusive. As we have already observed, if the parallel of city and man is to hold true, then a man, like the city, should be interested only in himself and merely