is otherwise?" said Thrasyihachus. "You seemed to," I said, "or else you have no care for us and aren't a bit concerned whether we shall live worse or better as a result of our ignorance of what you say you know. But, my good man, make an effort to show it to us-it wouldn't be a bad investment for you to do a good deed for so many as we are. I must tell you that for my part I am not persuaded; nor do I think injustice is more profitable than justice, not even if one gives it free rein and doesn't hinder it from doing what it wants. But, my good man, let there be an unjust man, and let him be able to do injustice, either by stealth or by fighting out in the open; nevertheless, he does not persuade me that this is more profitable than justice. And perhaps, someone else among us-and not only I-also has this sentiment. So persuade us adequately, you blessed man, that we don't deliberate correctly in having a higher regard for justice than injustice." "And how," he said, "shall I persuade you? If you're not per? suaded by what I've just now said, what more shall I do for you? Shall I take the argument and give your soul a forced feeding?''4o "By Zeus, don't you do it," I said. "But, first, stick to what you said, or if you change what you set down, make it clear that you're doing so, and don't deceive us. As it is, Thrasymachus, you see that-still considering what went before-after you had first defined the true doctor, you later thought it no longer necessary to keep a pre? cise guard over the true shepherd. Rather you think that he, insofar as he is a shepherd, fattens the sheep, not looking to what is best for the sheep, but, like a guest who is going to be feasted, to good cheer, or in turn, to the sale, like a money-maker and not a shepherd. The shepherd's art surely cares for nothing but providing the best for what it has been set over. For that the art's own affairs be in the best possible way is surely adequately provided for so long as it lacks nothing of being the shepherd's art. And, similarly, I for my part thought just now that it is necessary for us to agree that every kind of rule, insofar as it is rule, considers what is best for nothing other than for what is ruled and cared for, both in political and private rule. Do you think that the rulers in the cities, those who truly rule, rule willingly?" "By Zeus, I don't think it," he said. "I know it well." "But, Thrasymachus," I said, "what about the other kinds of rule? Don't you notice that no one wishes to rule voluntarily, but they de? mand wages as though the benefit from ruling were not for them but for those