of the good city. But beneath that surface runs a current which shows that spi;itedness is a most problematic element of the soul and the city, and that the good city is hence most improbable. Spiritedness first appeared in the city as the means to protect its stolen acquisitions. And this is a key to the nature of spiritedness: it is very much connected with the defense of one's own. This is particularly true in the case of Achilles whose anger is aroused by Agamemnon's taking away his prize of war, the maid Briseis, and whose rage is the result of the loss of his friend, Patroclus. If we take Achilles as the model of the spirited man, we see that anger is particularly directed toward punishment of those who take away one's own. Although anger causes men to be willing to sacrifice life, it is somehow connected with preserving those things which make life possible. Now, it is in the nature of human anger to seek for justification. It is difficult for a man to be angry when he is convinced that what is taken from him does not belong to him or that his losses or sufferings are his own fault. Anger requires something or someone to blame; it attributes responsibility to what injures, and it is closely allied with the sense of justice and in? justice. Unfortunately, it is unreasoning and can easily mistake its sense of injustice for the fact of injustice. It can support reason in legitimate defense and punishment, but it may also oppose reason, for it is un? willing to admit anything that calls into question the rightness of its cause. Anger may be educated to become a very generous passion, arousing itself at the sight of whatever appears to be injustice; but no matter what the substance of the charges of injustice it makes, no mat? ter how selfish the interest it is really protecting, it is always accompa? nied by the conviction that it is just. Anger is always self-righteous; it is at the root of moral indignation, but moral indignation is a dangerous and, although necessary, often unreasonable and even immoral passion. The tendency of anger is to give the color of reason and morality to selfishness. This has been revealed by the only character in the dialogue who has expressed anger; Thrasymachus' anger defends the city's own against philosophy when philosophy threatens the city's inj':lstice. Spiritedness is the only element in the city or man which by its very nature is hostile to philosophy. In order to overcome fear of death, spiritedness requires an almost fanatic fury; for, although the hero loves honor, he admits that it is bet? ter to be a slave on earth than a king in Hades. For him to be heroic is literally unreasonable; he must overcome his reason in order to be a hero. He is an enemy of reason. The alternatives as he sees them are either a reasonable but ignoble attachment