over the desiring-which is surely most of the soul in each and by nature most insatiable for money-and they'll watch it for fear of its being filled with the so? called pleasures of the body and thus becoming big and strong, and then not minding its own business, but attempting to enslave and rule what is not appropriately ruled by its class and subverting every? one's entire life." "Most certainly," he said. "So," I said, "wouldn't these two do the finest job of guarding against enemies from without on behalf of all of the soul and the body, 142 b the one deliberating, the other making war, following the ruler, and with its courage fulfilling what has been decided?" "Yes, that's so." C "And then I suppose we call a single man courageous because of that part-when his spirited part preserves, through pains and pleasures, what has been proclaimed by the speeches about that which is terrible and that which is not." "Correct," he said. "And wise because of that little part which ruled in him and pro? claimed these things; it, in its turn, possesses within it the knowledge of that which is beneficial for each part and for the whole composed of the community of these three parts." "Most certainly." "And what about this? Isn't he moderate because of the friendship and accord of these parts-when the ruling part and the two ruled parts are of the single opinion that the calculating part ought to rule and b. don't raise faction against it?" "Moderation, surely," he said, "is nothing other than this, in city or in private man." "Now, of course, a man will be just because of that which we are so often saying, and in the same way." "Quite necessarily." "What about this?" I said. "Has our justice in any way been blunted so as to seem to be something other than what it came to light as in the city?" "Not in my opinion," he said. "If there are still any doubts in our soul," I said, "we could b. reassure ourselves completely by testing our justice in the light of the vulgar standards." "Which ones?" "For example, if, concerning this city and the man who by nature and training is like it, we were required to come to an agreement about whether, upon accepting a deposit of gold or silver, such a man would seem to be the one to filch it-do you suppose anyone would suppose that he would be the man to do it and not rather those who are not such 13 a as he is?" "No one would," he said. "And as for temple robberies, thefts, and betrayals, either of com? rades in private or cities in public, wouldn't this man be beyond them?" "Yes, he would be beyond them." "And, further, he would in no way whatsoever be faithless in oaths or other agreements." "Of course not." "Further, adultery, neglect of parents, and failure to care for the gods