one who is serious-the opportunity to dispute whether female human nature can share in common with the nature of the male class in all deeds or in none at all, or in some things yes and in others no, particularly with respect to war? Wouldn't one who thus made the finest beginning also be likely to make the finest ending?" "By far," he said. "Do you want us," I said, "to carry on the dispute and represent those on the other side ourselves so that the opposing argument won't be besieged without defense?" "Nothing stands in the way," he said. "Then, on their behalf, let's say: 'Socrates and Glaucon, there's no need for others to dispute with you. For at the beginning of the settle- ment of the city you were founding, you yourselves agreed that each one must mind his own business according to nature."' "I suppose we did agree. Of course." "'Can it be that a woman doesn't differ in her nature very much from a man?'" "But of course she differs." "'Then isn't it also fitting to prescribe a different work to each ac? cording to its nature?"' "Certainly." "'How can it be, then, that you aren't making a mistake now and contradicting yourselves, when you assert that the men and the women must do the same things, although they have a nature that is most distinct?' What have you as an apology in the light of this, you surprising man?" "On the spur of the moment, it's not very easy," he said. "But I shall beg you, and do beg you, to interpret the argument on our behalf too, whatever it may be." "This, Glaucon, and many other things of the sort," I said, 452 d e 453 a b C "foreseeing them long ago, is what I was frightened of, and I shrank d from touching the law concerning the possession and rearing of the women and children." 453d e 454 a b "By Zeus," he said, "it doesn't seem an easy thing." "It isn't," I said. "However, it is a fact that whethei: one falls into a little swimming pool or into the middle of the biggest sea, one nevertheless swims all the same." "Most certainly." "Then we too must swim and try to save ourselves from the argument, hoping that some dolphin might take us on his back or for some other unusual rescue."12 "It seems so," he said. "Come, then," I said, "let's see if we can find the way out. Now we agree that one nature must practice one thing and a different nature must practice a different thing, and that women and men are different. But at present we are asserting that different natures must practice the same things. Is this the accusation against us?" "Exactly." "Oh, Glaucon," I said, "the power of the contradicting art is grand." "Why so?" "Because," I said, "in my opm1on, many fall into it even un? willingly and suppose they are not quarreling but