diligence." "I certainly think so," he said. "And also a nature fit for the pursuit?" "Of course." "Then it's our job, as it seems, to choose, if we're able, which are the natures, and what kind they are, fit for guarding the city." "Indeed it is our job." "By Zeus," I said, "it's no mean thing we've taken upon our- 374 e selves. But nevertheless, we mustn't be cowardly, at least as far as it's in our power." 375 a b "No," he said, "we mustn't." "Do you suppose," I said, "that for guarding there is any dif? ference between the nature of a noble puppy and that of a well-born young man?" "What do you mean?" "Well, surely both of them need sharp senses, speed to catch what they perceive, and, finally, strength if they have to fight it out with what they have caught." "Yes, indeed," he said, "both need all these things." "To say nothing of courage, if they are to fight well." "Of course." "Then, will horse or dog-or any other animal whatsoever-be willing to be courageous if it's not spirited? Haven't you noticed how irresistible and unbeatable spirit33 is, so that its presence makes every soul fearless and invincible in the face of everything?" "Yes, I have noticed it." "As for the body's characteristics, it's plain how the guardian must be." "And as for the soul's-that he must be spirited." "That too." "Glaucon," I said, "with such natures, how will they not be savage to one another and the rest of the citizens?" "By Zeus," he said, "it won't be easy." c. "Yet, they must be gentle to their own and cruel to enemies. If not, they'll not wait for others to destroy them, but they'll do it them? selves beforehand." "True," he said. "What will we do?" I said. "Where will we find a disposition at the same time gentle and great-spirited? Surely a gentle nature is op? posed to a spirited one." "It looks like it." "Yet, if a man lacks either of them, he can't become a good guardian. But these conditions resemble impossibilities, and so it fol- c. lows that a good guardian is impossible." 'Tm afraid so," he said. I too was at a loss, and, looking back over what had gone before, I said, "It is just, my friend, that we're at a loss. For we've abandoned the image we proposed." "How do you mean?" "We didn't notice that there are, after all, natures such as we thought impossible, possessing these opposites." "Where, then?" "One could see it in other animals too, especially, however, in the one we compared to the guardian. You know, of course, that by nature the disposition of noble dogs is to be as gentle as can be with their familiars and people they know and the opposite with those they don't know." "I do know that." "Then," I said, "it is possible, after all; and what we're seeking for in the guardian isn't against