opinion, that's the way it is." 139 a "And then, as for thirst," I said, "won't you include it among those things that are related to something? Surely thirst is in rela? tion to ... " "I will," he said, "and it's related to drink." "So a particular sort of thirst is...for a particular kind of drink, but thirst itself is neither for much nor Jittle, good nor bad, nor, in a word, for any particular kind, but thirst itself is naturally only for drink." "That's entirely certain." "Therefore, the soul of the man who's thirsty, insofar as it thirsts, b. wishes nothing other than to drink, and strives for this and is impelled toward it." "Plainly." "If ever something draws it back when it's thirsting, wouldn't that be something different in it from that which thirsts and leads it like a beast to drink? For of course, we say, the same thing wouldn't perform opposed actions concerning the same thing with the same part of itself at the same time." "No, it wouldn't." "Just as, I suppose, it's not fair to say of the archer that his hands at the same time thrust the bow away and draw it near, but that one hand pushes it away and the other pulls it in." b. "That's entirely certain," he said. "Now, would we assert that sometimes there are some men who are thirsty but not wil1ing to drink?" "Surely," he said, "many and often." "What should one say about them?" I said. "Isn't there something in their soul bidding them to drink and something forbidding them to do so, something different that masters that which bids?" "In my opinion there is," he said. "Doesn't that which forbids such things come into being-when it comes into being-from calculation,27 while what leads and draws is present due to affections and diseases?" "It looks like it." "So we won't be irrational," I said, "if we claim they are two and different from each other, naming the part of the soul with which it cal? culates, the calculating, and the part with which it loves, hungers, thirsts and is agitated by the other desires, the irrational28 and de? siring, companion of certain replenishments and pleasures." "No, we won't," he said. "It would be fitting for us to believe that." "Therefore," I said, "let these two forms in the soul be distin? guished. Now, is the part that contains spirit and with which we are spirited a third, or would it have the same nature as one of these others?" "Perhaps," he said, "the same as one of them, the desiring." "But," I said, "I once heard something that I trust. Leontius, the son of Aglaion, was going up from the Piraeus under the outside of the North Wall29 when he noticed corpses lying by the public execu? tioner.30 He desired to look, but at the same time he was disgusted and made himself tum away; and for a while he struggled and covered his