stronger." "Is it possible," I said, "to use any animal for the same things if you don't assign it the same rearing and education?" "No, it's not possible." "If, then, we use the women for the same things as the men, they must also be taught the same things." "Yes." "Now music and gymnastic were given to the men." "Yes." "Then these two arts, and what has to do with war, must be assigned to the women also, and they must be used in the same ways." "On the basis of what you say," he said, "it's likely." "Perhaps," I said, "compared to what is habitual, many of the things now being said would look ridiculous if they were to be done as is said." "Indeed they would," he said. "What's the most ridiculous thing you see among them?" I said. "Or is it plain that it's the women exercising naked with the men in the b. palaestras, 9 not only the young ones, but even the older ones, too, like the old men in the gymnasiums who, when they are wrinkled and not pleas;mt to the eye, all the same love gymnastic?" "By Zeus!" he said, "that would look ridiculous in the present state of things." "Well," I said, "since we've started to speak, we mustn't be afraid of all the jokes--of whatever kind-the wits might make if such a b. change took place in gymnastic, in music and, not the least, in the bear? ing of arms and the riding of horses." "What you say is right," he said. "But since we've begun to speak, we must make our way to the rough part of the law, begging these men, not to mind their own business, 10 but to be serious; and reminding them that it is not so long ago that it seemed shameful and ridiculous to the Greeks-as it does now to the many among the barbarians-to see men naked; and that when the Cretans originated the gymnasiums, and then the Lacedaemonians, it was possible for the urbane of the time to make b. a comedy of all that. Or don't you suppose so?"11 "I do." "But, I suppose, when it became clear to those who used these practices that to uncover all such things is better than to hide them, Book VI 451d-453d SOCRATESfGLAUCO.N then what was ridiculous to the eyes disappeared in the light f what's best as revealed in speeches. And this showed that he is empty who believes anything is ridiculous other than the bad, and who tries to pro- duce laughter looking to any sight as ridiculous other than the sight of the foolish and the bad; or, again, he who looks seriously to any stan? dard of beauty he sets up other than the good." "That's entirely certain," he said. "Mustn't we then first come to an agreement whether these things are possible or not, and give anyone who wants to dispute-whether it's a man who likes to play or