due to him for former mistakes?" "Most certainly." "Thus, it must be assumed in the case of the just man that, if he fal1s into poverty, diseases, or any other of the things that seem bad, for him it wi1l end in some good, either in life or even in death. For, surely, gods at least wil1 never neglect the man who is eagerly willing to be? come just and, practicing virtue, likens himself, so far as is possible for a human being, to a god." "It's quite likely," he said, "that such a man isn't neglected by his like." "And, in the case of the unjust man, mustn't we think the opposite of these things?" "Very much so." "Then such would be some of the prizes from gods to the just ,, man. "In my opinion;at least," he said. "And what does he get from human beings?" I said. "Or, if that which is must be asserted, isn't it this way? Don't the clever unjust men do exactly as do all those in a race who run well from the lower end of (he course but not from the upper?11 At the start they leap sharply away but end up by becoming ridiculous and, with their ears on their shoulders,12 run off uncrowned? But those who are truly run? ners come to the end, take the prizes, and are crowned. Doesn't it also for the most part tum out that way with the just? Toward the end of every action, r.ssociation, and life they get a good reputation and bear off the prizes from human beings." "Quite so." "Will you, then, stand for my saying about them what you your? self said about the unjust? For I shall say that it's precisely the just, when they get older, who rule in their city if they wish ruling offices, and marry wherever they wish and give in marriage to whomever they want. And everything you said about the unjust, I now say about these men. And, again, about the unjust, I shall say that most of them, even if they get away unnoticed when they are young, are caught at the end of the race and ridiculed; and when they get old, they are insulted in their . wretchedness by foreigners and townsmen. As for being whipped and the things that you, speaking truly, said are rustic-that they will be racked and burned-suppose that you have also heard from me that they suffer all these things. But, as I say, see if you'll stand for it." "Very much so," he said. "For what you say is just." "Well, then," I said, "such would be the prizes, wages, and gifts coming to the just man while alive from gods and human beings, in ad? dition to those good things that justice itself procured." "And they are," he said, "quite fair and sure ones." "Well," I said, "they are nothing in multitude or magnitude com? pared to those that await each when