where it came from; second, that all those who practice it do so unwillingly, as necessary but not good; third, that it is fitting that they do so, for the life of the unjust man is, after all, far better than that of the just man, as they say. For, Socrates, though thafs not at all my own opinion, I am at a loss: f ve been talked deaf by Thrasymachus and countless others, while the argument on behalf of justice-that it is better than in? justice-f ve yet to hear from anyone as I want it. I want to hear it ex? tolled all by itself, and I suppose I would be most likely to learn that from you. Thafs the reason why fll speak in vehement praise of the unjust life, and in speaking I'll point out to you how I want to hear you, in your turn, blame injustice and praise justice. See if what rm saying is what you want." "Most of all," I said. "What would an intelligent man enjoy talk? ing and hearing about more again and again?" "What you say is quite fine," he said. "Now listen to what I said I was going to tell first-what justice is and where it came from. "They say that doing injustice is naturally good, and suffering in? justice bad, but that the bad in suffering injustice far exceeds the good in doing it; so that, when they do injustice to one another and suffer it and taste of both, it seems profitable-to those who are not able to escape the one and choose the other-to set down a compact among themselves neither to do injustice nor to suffer it. And from there they began to set down their own laws and compacts and to name what the law commands lawful and just. And this, then, is the genesis and being of justice; it is a mean between what is best-doing injustice without paying the penalty-and what is worst-suffering injustice without being able to avenge oneself. The just is in the middle between these two, cared for not because it is good but because it is honored due to a want of vigor in doing injustice. The man who is able to do it and is truly a man would never set down a compact with anyone not to do in? justice and not to suffer it. He'd be mad. Now the nature of justice is this and of this sort, and it naturally grows out of these sorts of things. So the argument goes. "That even those who practice it do so unwillingly, from an in? capacity to do injustice, we would best perceive if we should in thought do something like this: give each, the just man and the unjust, license to do whatever he wants, while we follow and watch where his desire will lead each. We would catch the just man red-handed going the same way as the unjust man out of