steep, upward way and didn't let him go before he had dragged him out into the light of the sun, wouldn't he be distressed and 516 a annoyed at being so dragged? And when he came to the light, wouldn't he have his eyes full of its beam and be unable to see even one of the things now said to be true?" "No, he wouldn't," he said, "at least not right away." "Then I suppose he'd have to get accustomed, if he were going to see what's up above. At first he'd most easily make out the shadows; and after that the phantoms of the human beings and the other things in water; and, later, the things themselves. And from there he could turn to beholding the things in heaven and heaven itself, more easily at night-looking at the light of the stars and the moon-than by day-looking at the sun and sunlight." "Of course." "Then finally I suppose he would be able to make out the sun-not its appearances in water or some alien place, but the sun it? self by itself in its own region-and see what ifs like." "Necessarily," he said. "And after that he would already be in a position to conclude about it that this is the source of the seasons and the years, and is the steward of all things in the visible place, and is in a certain way the cause of all those things he and his companions had been seeing." "It's plain," he said, "that this would be his next step." "What then? When he recalled his first home and the wisdom there, and his fellow prisoners in that time, don't you suppose he would consider himself happy for the change and pity the others?" "Quite so." "A9d if in that time there were among them any honors, praises, and prizes for the man who is sharpest at making out the things that go by, and most remembers which of them are accustomed to pass be? fore, which after, and which at the same time as others, and who is thereby most able to divine what is going to come, in your opinion would he be desirous of them and envy those who are honored and hold power among these men? Or, rather, would he. be affected as Ho? mer says and want very much 'to be on the soil, a serf to another man, to a portionless man,'2 and to undergo anything whatsoever rather than to opine those things and live that way?" "Yes," he said, "I suppose he would prefer to undergo everything rather than live that way." "Now reflect on this too," I said. "If such a man were to come down again and sit in the same seat, on coming suddenly from the sun wouldn't his eyes get infee!ted with darkness?" "Very much so," he said. "And if he once more had to compete with those perpetual prisoners in forming judgments about those shadows while his