it surely doesn't differ from the speech that isn't sung insofar as it must be spoken according to the same models we prescribed a while ago and in the same way." "True," he said. "And, further, the harmonic mode and the rhythm must follow the speech." "Of course." "Moreover, we said there is no further need of wailing and lamen- tations in speeches." "No, there isn't." "What are the wai1ing modes? TeU me, for you're musical." "The mixed Lydian," he said, "and the 'tight' Lydian and some similar ones." <'Aren't they to be excluded?" I said. "They're useless even for women who are to be decent, let alone for men." "Certainly." "Then again, drunkenness, softness, and idleness are most un- seemly for guardians." "Of course." "What modes are soft and suitable for symposia?"46 "There are some Ionian," he said, "and some Lydian, too, which are caHed 's]ack."' "Could you, my friend, use them for war-making men?" "Not at al1," he said. "So, you've probably got the Dorian and the Phrygian left." "I don't know the modes," I said. "Just ]eave that mode which would appropriately imitate the sounds and accents of a man who is courageous in warlike deeds and every violent work, and who in failure or when going to face wounds or death or falling into some other disaster, in the face of aH these things stands up firmly and patiently against chance. And, again, leave another mode for a man who per? forms a peaceful deed, one that is not violent but voluntary, either per- 398 C d e 399a b SOCRATES/GLAUCON THE REPUBLIC 399 b C d e 400a su ding someone of something and making a request-whether a god by prayer or a human being by instruction and exhortation-or, on the contrary, holding himself in check for someone else who makes a re? quest or instructs him or persuades him to change, and as a result act? ing intelligently, not behaving arrogantly, but in all these things acting moderately and in measure and being content with the consequences. These two modes-a violent one and a voluntary one, which will pro? duce the finest imitation of the sounds of unfortunate and fortunate, moderate and courageous men-leave these." "You're asking me to leave none other than those I was just speaking of." "Then," I said, "there'll be no need of many-toned or panhar? monic instruments for our songs and melodies." "It doesn't look like it to me," he said. "Then we'll not support the craftsmen who make lutes, harps, and all the instruments that are many-stringed and play many modes." "It doesn't look like we will," he said. "And what about this? Will you admit flutemakers and flutists in? to the city? Or, isn't the flute the most many-stringed of all, and aren't the panharmonic instruments themselves imitations of it?" "Plainly," he said. "The lyre and the either are left you as useful for the city," I said. "And, further, for the country, there'd be a. sort