"Of course." "And they will have their differences like men who, after all, will be reconciled." "Most certainly." "Then they'll correct33 their opponents in a kindly way, not punishing them with a view to slavery or destruction, acting as correc? tors, not enemies." "That's what they'll do," he said. "Therefore, as Greeks, they won't ravage Greece or bum houses, nor will they agree that in any city all are their enemies-men, women, and children-but that there are always a few enemies who are to blame for the differences. And, on all these grounds, they won't be willing to ravage lands or tear down houses, since the many are friendly; and they'll keep up the quarrel until those to blame are com? pelled to pay the penalty by the blameless ones who are suffering." "I for one," he said, "agree that our citizens must behave this way toward their opponents; and toward the barbarians they must behave as the Greeks do now toward one another." "So, shall we also give this law to the guardians-neither waste countryside nor bum housers "Let it be given," he said. "And this and what went before are fine. But, Socrates, I think that if one were to allow you to speak about this sort of thing, you would never remember what you previously set aside in order to say all this. Is it possible for this regime to come into being, and how is it ever possible? I see that, if it should come into being, everything would be good for the city in which it came into be? ing. And I can tell things that you leave out-namely, that they would be best at fighting their enemies too because they would least desert one another, these men who recognize each other as brothers, fathers, and sons and who call upon each other using these names. And if the females join in the campaign too, either stationed in the line it? self, or in the rear, to frighten the enemies and in case there should ever be any need of help-I know that with all this they would be un- 470e 471 a b C d 471 d e 472a b C d e beatable. And I see all the good things that they would have at home and are left out in your account. Take it that I agree that there would be all these things and countless others if this regime should come into being, and don't talk any more about it; rather, let's now only try to per? suade ourselves that it is possible and how it is possible, dismissing all the rest" ..All of a sudden," I said, "you have, as it were, assaulted my argument, and you have no sympathy for me and my loitering.34 Perhaps you don't know that when I've hardly escaped the two waves you're now bringing the biggest and most difficult, the third wave.a; When you see and hear it, you'll be quite sympathetic, recognizing that