and care enter him for things to which he gave no thought before. The tales17 told about what is in Hades-that the one who has done unjust deeds18 here must pay the d. penalty there-at which he laughed up to then, now make his soul twist and tum because he fears they might be true. Whether it is due to the debility of old age, or whether he discerns something more of the things in that place because he is already nearer to them, as it were-he is, at any rate, now full of suspicion and terror; and he reckons up his ac? counts apd considers whether he has done anything unjust to anyone. Now, the man who finds many unjust deeds in his life often even wakes from his sleep in a fright as children do, and lives in anticipation of 1 evil. To the man who is conscious in himself of no unjust deed, sweet 331 a and good hope is ever beside him-a nurse of his old age, as Pindar puts it. For, you know, Socrates, he put it charmingly when he said that whoever lives out a just and holy life Sweet hope accompanies, Fostering his heart, a nurse of his old age, Hope which most of all pilots The ever-turning opinion of mortals. How very wonderfully well he says that. For this I count the possession of money most wroth-while, not for any man, but for the decent and or? derly one. The possession of money contributes a great deal to not cheating or lying to any man against one's will, and, moreover, to not departing for that other place frightened because one owes some sacrifices to a god or money to a human being. It also has many other uses. But, still, one thing reckoned against another, I wouldn't count this as the least thing, Socrates, for which wealth is very useful to an in? telligent man." "What you say is very fine19 indeed, Cephalus," I said. "But as to this very thing, justice, shall we so simply assert that it is the truth and giving back what a man has taken from another, or is to do these very things sometimes just and sometimes unjust? Take this case as an example of what I mean: everyone would surely say that if a man takes weapons from a friend when the latter is of sound mind, and the friend demands them back when he is mad, one shouldn't give back such things, and the man who gave them back would not be just, and moreover, one should not be willing to teJI someone in this state the whole truth." "What you say is right," he said. "Then this isn't the definition of justice, speaking the truth and giving back what one takes." "It most certainly is, Socrates," interrupted Polemarchus, "at least if Simonides should be believed at all." "WeJl, then," said Cephalus, "I hand down the argument to you, for it's already time for