man is happiest, and he is that man who is kingliest and is king of himself; c while the worst and most unjust man is most wretched and he, in his tum, happens to be the one who, being most tyrannic, is most tyrant of himself and of the city?" "Let it have been announced by you," he said. "And shall I," I said, "add this to the proclamation: whether or not in being such they escape the notice of all human beings and gods?" "Do add that to the proclamation," he said. "All right, then," I said. "That would be one proof for us. Look at this second one and see if there seems to be anything to it." d "What is it?" "Since," I said, "just as a city is divided into three forms, so the soul of every single man also is divided in three, the thesis will admit yet of another proof, in my opinion." "What is it?" "This. It looks to me as though there were also a threefold divi? sion of pleasures corresponding to these three, a single pleasure peculiar to each one; and similarly a threefold division of desires and kinds of rule." "How do you mean?" he said. "One part, we say, was that with which a human being learns, and another that with which he becomes spirited; as for the third, because of its many forms, we had no peculiar name to call it by, but we named e it by what was biggest and strongest in it. For we called it the desiring part on account of the intensity of the desires concerned with eating, drinking, sex, and all their followers; and so, we also called it the SOCRATES/GLAUCON .,, THE REPUBLJcfl 571. a money-loving part, because such desires are most fulfilled by means of money." "That was right," he said. 'Then if we were to say that its pleasure and love is of gain, would we most satisfactorily fix it in one general form for the argument, so that when we speak of this part of the soul we will plainly indicate something to ourselves; and would we be right in calling it money? loving and gain-loving?" "In my opinion, at least," he said. "And what about this? Don't we, of course, say that the spirited part is always wholly set on mastery, victory and good reputation?" b. "Quite so." "If we were to designate it victory-loving, and honor-loving, would that strike the right note?" "Very much the right note." "And, moreover, it's plain to everyone that the part with which we learn is always entirely directed toward knowing the truth as it is; and of the parts, it cares least for money and opinion." "By far." "Then would it be appropriate for us to call it learning-loving and wisdom-loving?" "Of course." "And," I said, "doesn't this part rule in the souls of some men, b. while in that of others another of these parts rules, whichever it hap?