artisan. A wise man is judged, not by any deed that he performs, but by the quality of his knowledge. And that knowledge is not like that of the artisan who produces something which can be used and who deals with a special subject matter. Wisdom is sought for its own sake, and it is comprehen? sive, interrelating the various arts and their products. Both Homer and Socrates in some way possess this kind of knowledge; they both have a view of the whole. Homer produces a product as the artisans do, but that product is distinguished from the artisans' products in that it reflects a view of the whole, and its maker is by his very nature a man who must reflect on the whole. What Socrates implicitly criticizes Homer for is that he cannot ex? plain the grounds for that view of the whole or for the way of life devoted to knowing it. Homer appears as a celebrator of heroes, of men of action, and hence as their inferior. Speech seems to be subordinate to deed. Nothing in the Homeric poems indicates the dignity of the poet; there are no heroes who give an account of the poet's own doings, nor is there a picture of a universe which makes it possible to com? prehend the possibility of wisdom. Socrates accuses Homer of not reflecting on himself, and hence making a world in which there is no place for himself. His poem is not a compendium of imitations of the various arts because it is animated by a view of the whole. But because he does not provide a basis for that view, because the truth of that view is not the center of the poet's concern, Socrates is legitimated in treat? ing him as though he were merely a universal imitator of the arts to be judged by every artisan, or an incompetent statesman. This line of rea- soning serves to point up the way in which Homer differs from the ar? tisans and the men of action and is like Socrates. They are both devoted to the most comprehensive understanding of things. The real question, then, is what is the source and status of the view of the whole which in? forms Homer's works? In the next part of the discussion Socrates explores this question. He had earlier asserted that the painter, or, implicitly, the poet, is one of three craftsmen who in a way make the same product and that he stands farthest of the three from what is. A divine craftsman makes the idea, for example, of a bed. (The ideas were in this context understood not as eternal but as the product of art, thus constituting a world in which artisans or makers, rather than knowers, are the highest human beings.) A human craftsman looks to the idea of a bed and makes a bed. And the painter or poet looks to the bed made by the human craftsman and makes an