works give the illusion of nature, but are fundamentally affected by convention, and thus they deceive man in his quest for nature. To put the same thing in a different way, the poet must imitate heroes in his poems. But those heroes are the heroes of his nation who are also children of the legislator or the founder of the Greek way of life. Because the poet looks to what is around him or is conveyed by the tradition, and be? cause he must appeal to an audience, he is peculiarly prone to become involved in the popular prejudices. Rousseau, in his Letter to d' Alem? bert, has accurately reproduced this aspect of Socrates' critique of poetry and given it a modem force. What Socrates stresses is that there is nothing in the poef s art which impels him to the discovery of what is truly natural and much that inclines him to serve convention. If a poet shares the perspective of the philosophic legislator, if he is capable of the moral and intellectual virtue required for such a liberation, and if that perspective can inform his poetry, Socrates has no quarrel with him. From this viewpoint, one can also understand what Socrates meant by treating the poet as an imitator of artifacts. In one sense man is a natural being, but in another he is a product of nomos, convention. Men and men's ways differ from place to place as trees and their ways do not. The law transforms men to such an extent that many can doubt whether there is such a thing as human nature at all. Even if there is a natural man, or, more classically expressed, a man who lives according to nature, civil society and its laws must aid in his coming to be. Civil men, the dwellers in the cave, are in the decisive sense the artifacts of the legislator: their opinions are made by him. Human making has a great deal to do with our perception of even the things which seem most unambiguously natural. Men see the beautiful sunset, the noble river, the terrifying storm or the sacred cow. To know these things we must separate what belongs to them naturally from what opinion adds to them. Poetry tends to blend the natural and conventional elements in things; and it charms men in such a way that they no longer see the seams of the union of these two elements. It is not sufficient, however, to say that the poet is an imitator of an imitator, for Socrates knows that the poet is not simply slavishly subservient to the law and the legislator. The tragic poet depicts men's misfortunes and their lamentations. In Book III it was stated that good men do not suffer at the loss of those dear to them, and the poets had been commanded to so depict them. Now Socrates admits that they do indeed lament, but they do so in private. The poet's fault lies in