must be Jed to war on horseback as spectators; and, if it's safe anywhere, they must be led up near and- taste blood, like the pup? pies?" "I do remember," he said. "Then in a11 these. labors, studies, and fears," I said, "the boy who shows himself always readiest must be chosen to join a select num? ber." "At what age?" he said. "After they are released from compulsory gymnastic," I said. "For this is a time, whether it is two or three years, during which it is impossible to do anything e1se. Weariness and sleep are enemies of studies. And, at the same time, one of their tests, and that not the ]east, is what each wi1l show himself to be in gymnastic." "Of course," he said. "Then, after this time," I said, "those among the twenty-year-olds who are given preference wi11 receive greater honors than the others. And the various studies acquired without any particular order by the chi1dren in their education must be integrated into an overview27 which reveals the kinship of these studies with one another and with the nature of that which is." "At ]east, only such study," he said, "remains fast in those who receive it." "And it is the greatest test," I said, "of the nature that is dialec? tical and the one that is not. For the man who is capable of an overview is dialectical whi]e the one who isn't, is not." "I share your belief," he said. "We11, then," I said, "in terms of these tests, you will have to con? sider who among them most meets them and is steadfast in studies and steadfast in war and the rest of the duties established by ]aw.28 And to these men, in turn, when they are over thirty, you will give pref? erence among the preferred and assign greater honors; and you must [ 216 J consider, testing them with the power of dialectic, who is able to release himself from the eyes and the rest of sense and go to that which is in itself and accompanies truth. And here, my comrade, you have a job requiring a great deal of guarding." "Of what in particular?" he said. "Don't you notice," I said, "how great is the harm coming from the practice of dialectic these days?" "What's that?" he said. "Surely its students," I said, "are filled full with lawlessness." "Very much so," he said. "Do you suppose it's any wonder," I said, "that they are so af? fected, and don't you sympathize?" "Why exactly should I?" he said. "It is like the case of changeling child," I said, "reared in much wealth, in a numerous and great family amidst many flatterers, who on reaching manhood becomes aware that he does not belong to these pre? tended parents and isn't able to find those who really gave him birth. Can you divine how he would be disposed toward the flatterers and toward those who made the change, in the time