eyes? Either it must be because the sight of death is repulsive to it and thus it cooperates with the desire for life, or because the contemplation of the corpses of criminals is ignoble and goes counter to 'the sense of shame induced by spiritedness. Whatever the explanation, jts resistance to Leontius does not seem rational. As a matter of fact, spiritedness is fighting curiosity, a close kin of the desire to know, either because that desire is opposed by other powerful desires, or because it seeks to know the forbidden. Spiritedness appears to be capable both of allying itself with desire and of opposing the quest for knowledge. In the city the spirited class, although its education presented some difficulties, was largely salutary; but in the soul it is more problematic. Socrates, because he is trying to persuade Glaucon to be a good citizen of the good city, gives him an inadequate account of spiritedness in the soul-one which gives spiritedness the same role in the soul as it performed in the city, while forgetting the differences between a soul and a city. Primarily, what Socrates chooses to forget in his incomplete pic? ture of spiritedness as merely reason's trusty tool is the fact that in some sense reason in the soul is a desire, and that spiritedness, to the extent that it opposes desire, opposes reason also. He was enabled to do this by asserting that reason in the soul is merely calculation, as it is in the city. A dry, calculating reason, concerned with directing the desires to a fulfill? ment consonant with the common good, is distinct from desire and need not conflict with spiritedness; but a reason erotically striving to know the first causes of all things, with a life of its own, indifferent to the needs of the here and now, is one of the most powerful desires and far removed from the city's primary concerns. Spiritedness will oppose it as surely as it does any of the other forms of eras. Reason exists in cities but only in the form of political prudence. Timocracy, the regime found? ed on spiritedness, is the regime most openly hostile to philosophy (547e). A city, like a man, desires wealth, needs food, and deliberates. But a city cannot reproduce or philosophize; all forms of eras are cut off from it. In this sense a city cannot be properly compared to a man. It can use the offspring of eras, whether children or thoughts, but it must merely make use of, or conventionalize, the activities which produce them. In order to make a man thoroughly political, one must suppress or distort all ex? pressions of his eroticism. In order to see what Socrates leaves out here, it is helpful to look again at the warrior class which is supposed to perform the same func? tion in the city as does spiritedness in the soul. The warriors can, in the service of desires, take from foreigners as conquerors, or