said, "they punish very severely." "So, what other sophist or what sort of private speeches do you suppose will go counter to these and prevail?" "I don't suppose any will," he said. "No," I said, "but even the attempt is a great folly. For, a charac? ter receiving an education contrary to theirs does not, has not, and will not become differently disposed toward virtue, a human character that is, my comrade; for the divine, according tQ the proverb, let's make an exception to the argument. You should be well aware that, if anything should be saved and become such as it ought to be in regimes in this kind of condition, it won't be bad if you say that a god's dispensation saved it." "I am of no other opinion," he said. "Well, then," I said, "besides that one, be of this opinion too." "What?" "That each of the private wage earners whom these men call sophists and believe to be their rivals in art, educates in nothing other than these convictions11 of the many, which they opine when they are gathered together, and he calls this w.isdom. It is just like the case of a man who learns by heart the angers and desires of a great, strong beast he is rearing, how it should be approached and how taken hold 493 l of, when-and as a result of what-it becomes most difficult or most gentle, and, particularly, under what conditions it is accustomed tout- ter its several sounds, and, in tum, what sort of sounds uttered by another make it tame and angry. When he has learned all this from associating and spending time with the beast, he calls it wisdom and, organizing it as an art, turns to teaching. Knowing nothing in truth about which of these convictions and desires is noble, or base, or good, or evil, or just, or unjust, he applies all these names following the great animal's opinions-calling what delights it good and what vexes it bad. He has no other argument about them but calls the necessary just and noble, neither having seen nor being able to show someone else how much the nature of the necessary and the good really differ. Now, in your opinion, wouldn't such a man, in the name of Zeus, be out of place as an educator?" 'Yes," he said, "in my opinion, he would indeed." "So, does this man seem any different from the man who believes it is wisdom to have figured out the anger and pleasures-whether in painting, music, or, particularly, in politics-of the multifarious many who assemble? However a man associates with them, whether he makes a display of poetry, or any other product of craft, or any service to the city-making the many his masters beyond what is necessary-the so? called necessity of Diomede12 will compel him to produce the things these men praise. But that those things are in truth good and noble-have you up to now ever heard anyone