son habituates himself to be like his father and to have no shap1e before or fear of his parents-thafs so he may be free; and metic is on an equal level with townsman and townsman with metic, and similarly with the foreigner."23 "Yes," he said, "that's what happens." "These and other small things of the following kind come to pass," I said. "As the teacher in such a situation is frightened of the pupils and fawns on them, so the students make light of their teachers, as well as of their attendants. And, generally, the young copy their el? ders and compete with them in speeches and deeds while the old come down to the level of the young; imitating the young, they are overflow? ing with facility and charm, and that's so that they won't seem to be unpleasant or despotic." "Most certainly," he said. "And the ultimate in the freedom of the multitude, my friend," I said, "occurs in such a city when the purchased slaves, male and female, are no less free than those who have bought them. And we al? most forgot to mention the extent of the law of equality and of freedom in the relations of women with men and men with women." "Won't we," he said, "with Aeschylus, 'say whatever just came to our lips'?"24 "Certainly," I said, "I shall do just that. A man who didn't have 562 C d e 563 a b C 563C d e 564 a b the experience couldn't be persuaded of the extent to which beasts sub? ject to human beings are freer here than in another city. The bitches follow the proverb exactly and become like their mistresses;25 and, of course, there come to be horses and asses who have gotten the habit of making their way quite freely and solemnly, bumping into whomever they happen to meet on the roads, if he doesn't stand aside, and all else is similarly full of freedom." - "You're telling me my own dream," he said. "I, myself, re? peatedly suffer that very thing when journeying to the country." "Then, summing up all of these things together," l said, "do you notice how tender they make the citizens' soul, so that if someone pro? poses anything that smacks in any way of slavery, they are irritated and can't stand it? And they end up, as you well know, by paying no atten? tion to the laws, written or unwritten, in order that they may avoid hav? ing any master at all." "Of course, I know it," he said. "Well, then, my friend," I said, "this is the beginning, so fair and heady, from which tyranny in my opinion naturally grows." "It surely is a heady beginning," he said, "but what's next?" "The same disease," I said, "as that which arose in the oligarchy and destroyed it, arises also in this regime-but bigger and stronger as a result of the hcense-and enslaves democracy. And, really, anything that is done