a desire to get the better; this is what any nature naturally pursues as good, while it is law3 which by force per? verts it to honor equality. The license of which I speak would best be realized if they should come into possession of the sort of power that it is said the ancestor of Gyges,4 the Lydian, once got. They say he was a shepherd toiling in the service of the man who was then ruling Lydia. There came to pass a great thunderstorm and an earthquake; the earth cracked and a chasm opened at the place where he was pasturing. He saw it, wondered at it, and went down. He saw, along with other quite wonderful things about which they tell tales, a hollow bronze horse. It had windows; peeping in, he saw there was a corpse inside that looked larger than human size. It had nothing on except a gold ring on its hand; he slipped it off and went out. When there was the usual gathering of the shepherds to make the monthly report to the king about the flocks, he too came, wearing the ring. Now, while he was sit? ting with the others, he chanced to tum the collet of the ring to himself, toward the inside of his hand; when he did this, he became invisible to those sitting by him, and they discussed him as though he were away. He wondered at this, and, fingering the ring again, he twisted the collet toward the outside; when he had twisted it, J:ie became visible. Think? ing this over, he tested whether the ring had this power, and that was exactly his result: when he turned the collet inward, he became invisi? ble, when outward, visible. Aware of this, he immediately contrived to 358e 359a b C d e 360a GLAUCON THE REPUBLIC 360a b C d e 361 a b be one of the messengers to the king. When he arrived, he committed adultery ith theking's wife and, along with her, set upon the king and killed him. And so he took over the rule. "Now if there were two such rings, and the just man would put one on, and the unjust man the other, no one, as it would seem, would be so adamant as to stick by justice and bring himself to keep away from what belongs to others and not lay hold of it, although he had li? cense to take what he wanted from the market without _fear, and to go into houses and have intercourse with whomever he wanted, and to slay orrelease from bonds whomever he wanted, and to do other things as an equal to a god among humans. And in so doing, one would act no differently from the other, but both would go the same way. And yet, someone could say that this is a great proof that no one is willingly just but only when compelled to be so. Men do