admit all of them into the city, or one of the unmixed, or the one who is mixed?" "If my side wins," he said, "it will be the unmixed imitator of the decent." "However, Adeimantus, the man who is mixed is pleasing; and by far the most pleasing to boys and their teachers, and to the great mob too, is the man opposed to the one you choose." "Yes," he said, "he is the most pleasing." "But," I said, "perhaps you would say he doesn't harmonize with our regime because there's no double man among us, nor a manifold one, since each man does one thing." "No, he doesn't harmonize." "Isn't it for this reason that it's only in such a city that we'll find the shoemaker a shoemaker, and not a pilot along with his shoemaking, and the farmer a farmer, and not a judge along with his farming, and the skilled warrior a skilled warrior, and not a moneymaker along with his warmaking, and so on with them all?" "True," he said. "Now, as it seems, if a man who is able by wisdom to become every sort of thing and to imitate all things should come to our city, wishing to make a display of himself and his poems, we would fall on our knees before him as a man sacred, wonderful, and pleasing; but we would say that there is no such man among us in the city, nor is it lawful45 for such a man to be born there. We would send him to an? other city, with myrrh poured over his head and crowned with wool, whi1e we ourselves would use a more austere and less pleasing poet and teller of tales for the sake of benefit, one who would imitate the style of the decent man and would say what he says in those models that we set down as laws at the beginning, when we undertook to edu? cate the soldiers." "Indeed that is what we would do," he said, "if it were up to us." "Now, my friend," I said, "it's likely we are completely finished with that part of music that concerns speeches and tales. What must be told and how it must be told have been stated." "That's my opinion too," he said. b. "After that," I said, "doesn't what concerns the manner of song and melody remain?" "plainly." "Couldn't everyone by now discover what we have to say about how they must be if we're going to remain in accord with what has already been said?" And Glaucon laughed out and said, "I run the risk of not being included in everyone. At least I'm not at present capable of suggesting what sort of things we must say. However, I've a suspicion." "At all events," I said, "you are, in the first place, surely capable of saying that melody is composed of three things-speech, harmonic mode, and rhythm." "Yes," he said, "that I can do." "What's speech in