compelled to serve vice; so i. that the sharper it sees, the more evil it accomplishes?" i' "Most certainly," he said. f "However," I said, "if this part of such a nature were trimmed . in earliest childhood and its ties of kinship with becoming were cut (: off-like leaden weights, which eating and such pleasures as well as l [ 197 ] 518 a b C d e 519 a b SOCRATESfCLAUCON THE ,, REPUBLIC : 517. b C d e 517. a b their refinements naturally attach to the soul and tum its vision doWn? ward-if, I say, it were rid of them and turned around toward the true things, this same part of the same human beings would also see them most sharply, just as it does those things toward which it now is turned." "It's likely," he said. "And what about this? Isn't it likely," I said, "and necessary, asa consequence of what was said before, that those who are without education and experience of truth would never be adequate stewards of a city, nor would those who have been allowed to spend their time in education continuously to the end-the former because they don't have any single goal in life at which they must aim in doing everything they do in private or in public, the latter because they won't be willing to act, believing they have emigrated to a colony on the Isles of the Blessed4 while they are still alive?" "True,'' he said. "Then our job as founders," I said, "is to compel the best natures to go to the study which we were saying before is the greatest, to see the good and to go up that ascent; and, when they have gone up and seen sufficiently, not to permit them what is now permitted." "What's that?" "To remain there,'' I said, "and not be willing to go down again among those prisoners or share their labors and honors, whether they be slighter or more serious." "What?" he said. "Are we to do them an injustice, and make them live a worse life when a better is possible for them?" "My friend, you have again forgotten," I said, "that it's not the concern of law that any one class in the city fare exceptionally well, but it contrives to bring this about in the city as a whole, harmonizing the citizens by persuasion and compulsion, making them share with one another the benefit that each is able to bring to the common? wealth. And it produces such men in the city not in order to let them turn whichever way each wants, but in order that it may use them in binding the city together." "That's true," he said. "I did forget." "Well, then, Glaucon," I said, "consider that we won't be doing injustice to the philosophers who come to be among us, but rather that we will say just things to them while compelling them besides to care for and guard