not?" "Certainly," said Glaucon. BOOK IV And Adeimantus interrupted and said, "What would your apology1 be, Socrates, if someone were to say that you're hardly mak? ing these men happy, and further, that it's their own fault-they to whom the city in truth belongs but who enjoy nothing good from the city as do others, who possess lands, and build fine big houses, and possess all the accessories that go along with these things, and make private sacrifices to gods, and entertain foreigners, and, of course, also acquire what you were just talking about, gold and silver and all that's conventionally held to belong to men who are going to be blessed? But, he would say, they look exactly like mercenary auxiliaries who sit in the city and do nothing but keep watch." "Yes," I said, "and besides they do it for food alone; they get no wages beyond the food, as do the rest. So, if they should wish to make a private trip away from home, it won't even be possible for them, or give gifts to lady companions, or make expenditures wherever else they happen to wish, such as those made by the men reputed to be happy. You leave these things and a throng of others like them out of the ac? cusation." "Well," he said, "let them too be part of the accusation." "You ask what our apology will then be?" "Yes.,, 419 a 420 a b 420b C d e 421 a b C "Making our way by the same toad," I said, "I suppose we'll find what has to be said. We'll say that it wou]dn't be surprising if these men, as they are, are a]so happiest. However, in founding the city We are not 1ooking to the exceptiona1 happiness of any one group among us but, as far as possib]e, that of the city as a who]e. We supposed we wou]d find justice most in such a city, and injustice, in its tum, in the worst-governed one, and taking a careful look at them, we would judge what we've been seeking for so long. Now then, we suppose we're fashioning the happy city-a whole city, not setting apart a happy few and putting them in it. We'll consider its opposite presently. Just as if we were painting statues2 and someone came up and began to blame us, saying that we weren't putting the fairest colors on the fairest parts of the anima1-for the eyes, which are fairest, had not been painted purple but black-we would seem to make a sensible apology to him by saying: 'You surprising man, don't suppose we ought to paint eyes so fair that they don't even look like eyes, and the same for the other parts; but observe whether, assigning what's suitable to each of them, we make the whole fair. So now too, don't compel us to attach to the guardians a happiness that will tum them into everything except guard? ians. We know how to