makers of these horizons; or, to use the symbols of the cave image, they are the men who carry the statues and the other things the reflections of which the prisoners see. These objects are not natural; they are themselves images of natural ob? jects produced with cunning art so as to look like their originals, but are adapted to serve the special interests of the artists. In other words, we do not see things directly, but through the opinions we are taught about them. Those opinions are not accurate reflections of nature but are adapted to serve the needs of the city. They are designed to make a man love his city, and therefore they have to invest the city with all sorts of special significance and have no basis in nature. The theoretical man would not believe such opinions and would, as theoretical man, have no particular concern for them or, therefore, for the city they de? fend. But the citizens' wor]d is always a mixture of nature and conven? tion, and that is the world of all of us. The first and most difficult of tasks is the separation of what exists by nature from what is merely made by man. The pictures on the wall of our cave look very real, and the two sources of the representations are artfully intertwined. We are attached to the illusion because it constitutes our own world and gives meaning to our particular existence. Philosophy or science is concerned only with man or the city, not with this particular man or this particular city. Few men-and no cities-can live with this perspective. Socrates illustrates this in the ac? count of his beliefs and practices given by Xenophon (Memorabilia, I, i). He was in the habit of telling his friends that art or science could teach a man how to sow a field well or how to build a house well, but it cannot tell him whether he will reap what he has sown or live in what he has built. Science is indifferent to the fate of individuals. Those for whom this is intolerable need a supplement to reason; they must tum to the Delphic oracle, to the divine, in order to satisfy themselves. Thus our love of our own ties us to the cave, and that powerful passion must be overcome in order to move upward on the line of knowledge. And he who does must leave his kin, be regarded as a traitor by them, forego the rewards offered to the man who joins in their self-deception, and run the risks of punishment prescribed by their laws. These are the bonds which tie us to the cave and its images. To break them requires rare passion and courage, for the lion in our souls, spiritedness, guards the gates of the dungeon. The divided line and the cave teach that there are two fatal temptations of the mind. The first is that of the men who insist on the