little about injustices he might be committing. Only as death and death's perspective approaches does fear. cause him to become concerned about his duties to men and gods. He is not sure that there are such punishments or even that he had rea1ly done unjust deeds, but prudence counsels a punctilious attention to his accounts with men and gods. Justice is a matter of self-interest: one should care about others if there are gods who defend justice. In response to Cephalus' moving account of how he wishes to use his money in such a way as to live out his life in justice and piety, Soc? rates becomes argumentative. Instead of encouraging the old man in his laudable intentions, Socrates as much as tells him that he does not know what justice is and thereby undermines his life. This is one of the most decisive moments of the dialogue, for, with his question, Socrates takes command of the little community, forces Cephalus to leave, and makes the nature of justice the problem of the discussion. Socrates acts as though Cephalus had tried to define justice and objects to the defini? tion he himself constructs out of .Cephalus' statement. Justice, ac? cording to Socrates' rendition of Cephalus' view, is telling the truth and paying one's debts. Socrates' procedure is quite strange. In the first place he says nothing about half of what interests Cephalus: he does not mention piety, whether this is because he thinks Cephalus' understand? ing of piety is adequate or because he is not interested in piety. Sec? ond, in his discussion of paying one's debts, Socrates is silent about the gods and the sacrifices owed to them. In a word, Socrates forgets the divine, which is Cepha]us' prime preoccupation, and makes the discussion one concerning hmnan justice a]one. This, along with his un? willingness to face the fact that he might be ignorant of the very obliga? tions he is trying so hard to meet, is what causes Cephalus to leave. While the discussion is going on, he is e]sewhere performing sacrifices to the gods, concerned with what is forgotten in that discussion. Socrates' objection is very simple. Everyone knows that it is just to pay one's debts, but everyone is also aware that there are occasions when one need not and should not do so. Thus, it is impossible, without contradicting oneself, to say that justice is paying one's debts. One must seek a noncontradictory definition of justice. Cephalus, too, is aware that one must sometimes deviate from the principles of justice in the name of justice, but he has never considered what the consequences of that fact are. He must adhere to the laws, human and divine, or he would have to spend his time in finding out what justice is rather than in doing it. If everyone had to decide whether the laws properly apply in each case that arises, the political result would be anarchy; and, in? dividually, a task beyond the capacities