include everything else in the same argument?" "In my opinion, at least." "Come, let's consider this now: is there some work of a soul that you couldn't ever accomplish with any other thing that is? For exam? ple, managing, ruling, and deliberating, and all such things-could we justly attribute them to anything other than a soul and assert that they are peculiar to it?" "To nothing else." "And, further, what about living? Shall we not say that it is the work of a soul?" "Most of all," he said. "Then, do we say that there is also some virtue of a soul?" "We do." "Then, Thrasymachus, will a soul ever accomplish its work well if deprived of its virtue, or is that impossible?" "Impossible." "Then a bad soul necessarily rules and manages badly while a good one does all these things well." "Necessarily." "Didn't we agree that justice is virtue of soul, and injustice, vice?" "We did so agree." "Then the just soul and the just man will have a good life, and the unjust man a bad one." "It looks like it," he said, "according to your argument." "And the man who lives well is blessed and happy, and the man who does not is the opposite." "Of course." "Then the just man is happy and the unjust man wretched." "Let it be so," he said. 345. C d e 345. a 354a b C "But it is not profitable to be wretched; rather it is profitable to be happy." "Of course." "Then, my blessed Thrasymachus, injustice is never more profitable than justice." "Let that," he said, "be the fill of your banquet at the festival of Bendis,45 Socrates." "I owe it to you, Thrasymachus," I said, "since you have grown gentle and have left off being hard on me. However, I have not had a fine banquet, but it's my own fault, not yours. For in my opinion, I am just like the gluttons who grab at whatever is set before them to get a taste of it, before they have in proper measure enjoyed what went before. Before finding out what we were considering at first-what the just is-I let go of that and pursued the consideration of whether it is vice and lack of learning, or wisdom and virtue. And later, when in its turn an argument that injustice is more profitable than justice fell in my way, I could not restrain myself from leaving the other one and going after this one, so that now as a result of the discussion I know nothing. So long as I do not know what the just is, I shall hardly know whether it is a virtue or not and whether the one who has it is unhappy or happy." BOOK II Now, when I had said this, I thought I was freed from argument. But after all, as it seems, it was only a pre]ude. For Glaucon is always most courageous in everything, and so now he