public and private interest was insured by the simplicity of desire, natural plenty, and the skill of the arts. Once desire has been eman- cipated, the virtue of moderation-understood as the control of spiritedness as well as desir is used to re-establish that harmony. (412b-416d) The next step in the establishment of the regime is the selection of rulers. These must be the olde:r warriors who also possess prudence and military capacity and who care for the city. Al? though the other qualifications seem equally important, the only one discussed is that of caring for the city. The severe education of the war? riors has not rendered them free of the temptations which might ul? timately make them wolves instead of watchdogs. They still think of the good things as those which are scarce and which men wish to keep privately for themselves. Nothing in their education has as yet attached them to this city and its well-being. If they are to care for the !=!itY they must love it, and if they are to love it they must connect it with their own self-love: they will love the city most if they are of the opinion that the city's advantage is their own advantage. Apparently, this opinion is constantly threatened, either because it is not simply evident to natural reason or because reason can so easily be mastered by sophistic arguments or by passions. Thus the most important criterion in the selection of the rulers is that they hold this opinion most solidly. The most elaborate techniques are used to test them. And even this does not suffice to guarantee that they will love the city. They must be showered with honors and rewards which will give them even more palpable proof of how advantageous the city is for them. But all the education, testing, and honors are not enough to re? establish the harmony between private and public interest which disappeared with the city of sows. The only remedy that Socrates can find is a great li the noble lie. This famous lie consists of two very diverse parts. According to the first part, all the members of the city, and particularly the warriors, were born from the earth and educated and equipped prior to emerging from it. If the citizens believe the tale, they will have a blood tie to the country; their relationship to it will have the same immediacy as does their relationship to the family. Loyalty to a particular city always seems somehow questionable: why affection for these men rather than any or all others? The tale makes them brothers and relates them to this particular patch of land. It identifies city and regime with country, which is the object of the most primitive political loyalty; it gives the motherland life and the principles of-the city body. Short of a universal state, nothing but such a tale can make a natural connection of the in? dividual to one of the many existing cities. Moreover,