flock and those who are likely to at? tack it. The warrior principle is doing good to friends and harm to ene? mies. It is true that their love of the known extends their affections beyond themselves to the city; it partakes of the universalizing or cos? mopolitan effect of philosophy. But that love ends at the frontier of the city. They remain the irrational beasts who love those who mistreat them as well as those who are kind to them. No mention is made of the fact that dogs do not characteristically love the Hocks but the masters to whom the flock belongs and who teach them and command them to care for the flock. These dogs as yet have no masters and are therefore incomplete. The masters whom they will know and hence love are philosophers and knowers. The dogs' nature opens them to the com? mand of philosophy but does not make them philosophers. (376c-383c) After Socrates and Glaucon have established the necessity of a nature combining spiritedness and gentleness for the war? riors, Adeimantus takes his brother's place in the discussion, and he and Socrates begin the education of that nature. On the basis of the description of the warriors' function, one would have expected that thcir education would be in the art of bearing arms-but this is not even mentioned. The entire discussion concerns the character of their souls and largely deals with the effects of music-the lovely domain of the Muses in which men charm their passions when at peace. Socrates focuses on the contents of poems, thereby implying that the other ele? ments of poetry are only accessories used for the purpose of better con? veying a theme or a teaching. The poets are taken most seriously as the makers of the horizon which constitutes the limit of men's desire and aspiration; they fonn the various kinds of men, who make nations various. Men's views about the highest beings and their choice of heroes are decisive for the tone of their lives. He who believes in the Olympian gods is a very different man from the one who believes i9- the Biblical God, just as the man who admires Achilles is different from the one who admires Moses or Jesus. The different men see very dif? ferent things in the world and, although they may partake of a common human nature, they develop very different aspects of that nature; they hardly seem to be of the same species, so little do they agree about what is important in life. Everything in the city stems from the beliefs of those who hold power and are respected in it. If poetry is so powerful, its character must be a primary concern of the legislator. The reform of poetry is most immediately directed to Adeimantus and the teaching he drew from poetry in his speech in favor of in? justice. On the basis of the "reformed" poetry, Adeimantus could not have come to his conclusions. The