thirst is a desire, it would be for good drink or for good whatever it is, and similarly with the other desires." "Perhaps," he said, "the man who says that would seem to make some sense." "However," I said, "of all things that are such as to be related to something, those that are of a certain kind are related to a thing of a certain kind, as it seems to me, while those that are severally them? selves are related only to a thing that is itself." "I don't understand," he said. "Don't you understand," I said, "that the greater is such as to be greater than something?" "Certainly." "Than the less?" "And the much-greater than the much-less, isn't that so?" ''Yes." "And, then, also the once-greater than the once-less, and the? going-to-be-greater than the-going-to-be-less?" "Of course," he said. "And, further, the more in relation to the fewer, the double to the c half, and everything of the sort; and, again, heavier to lighter, faster to slower; and further, the hot to the cold, and everything like them- doesn't the same thing hold?" "Most certainly." "And what about the various sorts of knowledge? Isn't it the same way? Knowledge itself is knowledge of learning itself, or of whatever it is to which knowledge should be related; while a particular kind of knowledge is of a particular kind of thing. I mean something like this. c When knowledge of constructing houses came to be, didn't it differ from the other kinds of knowledge and was thus called housebuild- ing?" "Of course." "Wasn't this by its being a particular kind of thing that is different from the others?" "Yes." "Since it was related to a particular kind of thing, didn't it too be? come a particular kind of thing itself? And isn't this the way with the other arts and sorts of knowledge too?" "It is." "Well, then," I said, "say that what I wanted to say then, if you now understand after all, is that of all things that are such as to be :LA UCON/ SOCRATES THE REPUBLIC 138 d related to something, those that are only themselves are related to things that are only themselves, while those that are related to things of a particular kind are of a particular kind. And I in no sense mean that c. they are such as the things to which they happen to be related, so that it would follow that the knowledge of things healthy and sick is healthy and sick and that of bad and good is itself bad and good. But when knowledge became knowledge not of that alone to which knowledge is related but of a particular sort of thing, and this was health and sickness, it as a consequence also became of a certain sort itself; and this caused it not to be called knowledge simply any more but, with the particular kind having been added to it, medicine." "I understand," he said, "and, in my