hidden tension between the two standpoints is most revealing and must be watched in the description which explicitly argues for their same? ness. The similarity of the life of the city to that of the man ac? tually diminishes in the downward progress from timocracy to tyranny. The timocratic man is largely devoted to th same goals as the timo? cratic city and his description is like that of the city, but the democratic man seems to be able to lead a private life and his description is quite different from that of the city. And, although all would agree that a tyrannically ruled city is the unhappiest of cities, it is hardly clear that the tyrant is the unhappiest of men. In a timocracy, as the city fares, so fares the man. This is not so evidently the case in democracies and tyrannies. The order of the cities in dignity and goodness-timocracy, oligarchy, democracy, and tyranny-accords with Adeimantus' tastes and common sense, although it is not in any way demonstrated. Follow? ing the principles tacitly established in the Republic, a city must pro? vide for the sustenance of the body, be able to defend itself, and have asrulers men who care for the common good. The cities' ranks seerri to correspond to their capacity to meet these conditions. Only aristocracy meets them fully, but timocracy comes closest to so doing. Sparta, the model of the timocratic regime, is a republic with a long history of stability and is able to defend its liberty courageously and skillfully. Al? though the rulers secretly lust for money, their love of honor protects their devotion to the public, and they are too ashamed to sacrifice their duty to acquisition. Moreover, if their courage is not that of the educated auxiliaries who are convinced that death is nothing terrible, and if they are somewhat too savage, it is ndeniable that they can fight very well. Next in order comes the oligarchic regime, which has neither the perfect rulers of the aristocratic regime nor the love of honor, and hence the courage, of the timocratic regime. The oligarchs tum all of the city's resources to their private gain and are both unwilling and unable to fight. But their continence and sobriety in acquiring and keeping property lend to the regime a certain stability. Because it lacks even the stability cif oligarchy, democracy comes fourth. The democrats are incapable of ruling themselves, so they must choose leaders. These demogogues despoil the rich for their own profit while trying to satisfy the demands of the poor. Finally, the city's property is wasted. Democracy is essentially a transitional regime because its principle, freedom, does not encourage the respect for law requisite to the main? tenance of a regime. It prepares the way for tyranny, admitted by all to be the worst of regimes, the regime in which the ruler exploits the city simply for his personal benefit. In his treatment of the destruction of these regimes, Socrates sets