strikes us as commonplace or absurd which indi? cates that we are not open to one of the mysteries, for such sentiments are the protective mechanisms which prevent our framework from being shaken. The dialogues are constructed with an almost unbelievable care and subtlety. The drama is everywhere, even in what seem to be the most stock responses or the most purely theoretical disquisitions. In the discussion of the divided line, for example, the particular il1ustrations chosen fit the nature of Socrates' interlocutor; in order to see the whole problem, the reader must ponder not only the distinction of the kinds of knowing and being but its particular effect on Glaucon and what Soc? rates might have said to another man. One is never allowed to sit and passively receive the words of wisdom from the mouth of the master. And this means that the translation must, insofar as humanly possible, present all the nuances of the original-the oaths, the repetitions of words, the slight changes in the f01m of responses, etc.-so that the reader can look at the progress of the drama with all the perceptiveness and sharpness of which his nature permits him, which he would bring to bear on any real situation which concerned him. The translator can? not hope to have understood it all, but he must not begrudge his possi? ble moral and intellectual superiors their possibility of insight. It is in the name of this duty that one risks the ridiculousness of nedantry in preserving the uncomfortable details which force a sacrifice of the easygoing charms of a more contemporary style. I have used the Oxford text of the Republic, edited by John Burnet. I have deviated from it only rarely and in the important instances have made mention of it in the notes. Always at my hand was, of course, James Adam's valuable commentary (New York: Cambridge University Press, 1963). Sch]eiermacher's old German version was the most useful translation I found. Although his text was inferior to ours, he seems to have had the best grasp of the character and meaning of the dialogues. Robin's French is a]so quite careful. The best English translations are Paul Shorey's (Loeb) and A. D. Lindsay's (Every? man's). The latter is probably the more useful of the two because it is so unpretentious and straightforward. CONTENTS THE REPUBLIC Book I 3 Book II 35 Book III 63 Book IV 97 Book V 127 Book VI 163 Book VII 193 Book VIII 221 Book IX 251 Book X 277 INTERPRETIVE THE REPUBLIC OF PLATO BOOK I Socrates: I went down to the Piraeus3 yesterday with Glaucon, son of Ariston,4 to pray to the goddess; and, at the same time, I wanted to ob? serve how they would put on the festival,5 since they were now hold? ing it for the first time. Now, in my opinion, the procession of the native inhabitants was fine; but the one the Thracians conducted was no less fitting a show. After we