shield (hoplon) and a pike was the most admired and most useful of soldiers. He fought the great land battles in close combat. He is contrasted with light? armed and mounted soldiers who were used to annoy the enemy on the flanks. The capacity to provide oneself with and use such arms was a test for citizen? ship in limited democratic regimes, like that of 411 B.c. in Athens. From the point of view of wealth and military skill, this distinguished a man from the majority, who were either light-armed soldiers or sailors. Heavy-armed com? bat was unde:-i:taod to be the most important kind, from the point of view of strategy and as an occasion for the expression of virtue. The Iliad is a hymn to this kind of soldier; in Socrates' time the Spartan was the model of the hoplite. 12. The word here is thymos, and it e,xpresses one of the most important notions in the book. Thymos is the principle or seat of anger or rage. It might well be translated by that pregnant word "heart," which mirrors the complex? ity of the Greek. It will always be translated as "spirit" or "spiritedness." Its use s ould be carefully watched. 13. The word philosopher means "lover of wisdom" and is parallel to philomathes, "lover of learning." These first uses of the term and their context are the first steps toward a definition of that difficult notion. Sometimes it will be translated as "philosopher," at other times as "lover of wisdom"; it is al? ways the same Greek word. 14. This expression is composed of the words kalos and agathos, the for? mer meaning "fair," "fine," or "noble," and the latter "good." It is the for? mula for what we would call"the gentleman." Whenever feasible, kaloskagathos will be translated as "gentleman." 15. "Gymnastic" means the exercise of the unadorned body. "Music" means originally "any activity performed under the guidance of the Muses." This meant especially lyric poetry sung to music, which is not far from our sense. Socrates broadens the sense somewhat and concentrates upon subordinating the rhythmic and melodic elements to the verbal and ration_al content. This was a change from the traditional emphasis, and the surprise we experience at the way in which he interprets the word is not entirely alien to what the Greek reader was probably supposed to experience at this radical treatment of the subject. To change the word would be to presuppose the effect of Socrates' thought prior to the fact. We have no adequate equivalent for either of the terms, and it is better to let each individual make his own interpretation on the basi.s of their use. (The larger sense of "music" is expressed at 617b-c, and in Loren.zo'sspeech at the beginning of Act V of The Merchant of Venice.) 16. The word is poiein from which the word "poet" is drawn. It means "to make" and is the characteristic expression for the activity of the poet. Poetry is just