result of the action, supposing themselves to have done wel1 or badly, and in all of this experiencing pain or enjoyment. Was there anything else beyond this?" "Nothing." "Then, in all this, is a human bei11g of one mind? Or, just as with respect to the sight there was faction and he had contrary opinions in himself at the same time about the same things, is there also faction in him when it comes to deeds and does he do battle with himself? But I am reminded that there's no need for us to come to an agreement about this now. For in the previous arguments we came to sufficient agree? ment about all this, asserting that our soul teems with ten thousand such oppositions arising at the same time." "Rightly," he said. "Yes, it was right," I said. "But what we then left out, it is now necessary to go through, in my opinion." "What was that?" he said. "A decent man," I said, "who gets as his share some such chance as losing a son or something else for which he cares particularly, as we were surely also saying then, will bear it more easily than other men." "Certainly." "Now let's consider whether he won't be grieved at all, or whether this is impossible, but that he will somehow be sensible in the face of pain." "The latter," he said, "is closer to the truth." "Now tell me this about him. Do you suppose he'll fight the pain and hold out against it more when he is seen by his peers, or when he is alone by himself in a deserted place?" "Surely," he said, "he will fight it far more when seen." "But when left alone, I suppose, he'll dare to utter many things of which he would be ashamed if someone were to hear, and will do many things he would not choose to have anyone see him do." "That's so," he said. "Isn't it argument and law that teH him to hold out, while the suf? fering itself is what draws him to the pain?" "True." "When a contradictory tendency arises in a human being about the same thing at the same time, we say that there are necessarily two things in him." "Undeniably." 603 C d e 604 a b 604 b C d e 605 a b "Isn't the one ready to be persuaded in whatever direction the law leads?" "How so?" "The law presumably says that it is finest to keep as quiet as possi? ble in misfortunes and not be irritated, since the good and bad in such things aren't plair:i, nor does taking it hard get one anywhere, nor are any of the human things worthy of great seriousness; and being in pain is an impediment to the coming of that thing the support of which we need as quickly as possible in these cases." "What do you mean?" he said. "Deliberation," I said, "about what has happened. One must