which it can best reveal its powers, cul? minates in the hero Achilles. And it is Achilles who bemoans his fate and asserts his preference for serfdom on earth to the kingdom over the dead. Life, mere life, is all that counts, for what is beyond it is a void, justifying neither a life of nobility nor one. of learning. The text for Republic, Book X, is Odyssey, Book XI, the account of Odysseus' visit to the dead. The difference between Odysseus' ex? periences among the dead and those of Er is an indication of what Soc? rates is trying to teach. Er found rewards and punishments for just and unjust souls; but, more important, he also found an order of the universe which makes this world intelligible and provides a ground for the contemplative life. At the source of all things, Er saw that soul is the first principle of the cosmic order; hence the proper study of the universe is the study of the soul. What is best in man is not in conflict but in harmony with the nature of things. The myth of Er is only a tale, just as is Odysseus' descent to Hades; there is small likelihood that Soc? crates believed in the survival of the individual soul. But this tale is a poetic reflection of the view which makes philosophy possible just as it [ 427] is indicated that Homer's tale reflects the view connected with an au? tonomous poetff. Men need poetry, but the kind of poetry which nourishes their souls makes all the difference in their understanding of their nonpoetic lives. Socrates outlines a new kind of poetry which leads beyond itself, which does not present man's only alternatives as tragic or comic, which supports the philosophic life. He gives the prin? ciple which Aristotle developed in the Poetics, and which is embodied in the works of men such as Dante and Shakespeare. It is still poetry, but poetry which points beyond itself. / Socrates begins his quarrel with Homer by asking Glaucon what he would think of a craftsman who "is not only able to make all imple? ments but also makes everything that grows naturally from the earth, and produces all animals-the others and himself too-and, in addi? tion, produces earth and heaven and gods and everything in heaven and everything. in Hades under the earth." Glaucon responds that such a man must be a most amazing sophist, but Socrates hastens to assure him that this maker's power is nothing surprising and is within everyone's reach. Socrates tells Glaucon, "... if you are willing to take a mirror and carry it around everywhere, quickly you will make the sun and the things in the heaven; quickly, the earth; and quickly, yourself and the other implements and plants and everything else that was just now mentioned" (596c-e). This seems an almost unbelievably crude and insensitive way to depreciate the value of poetry's representations. Socrates accuses the poet of being a