other than that which is be opinable?" "Yes, it would be something other." "Then does it opine what is not? Or is it also impossible to opine what is not? Think about it. Doesn't the man who opines refer his opin? ion to something? Or is it possible to opine, but to opine nothing?" "No, it's impossible." "The man who opines, opines some one thing?" "But further, that which is not could not with any correctness be addressed as some one thing but rather nothing at all." "Certainly." "To that which is not, we were compelled to assign ignorance, and to that which is, knowledge." "Right," he said. "Opinion, therefore, opines neither that which is nor that which is not." "No, it doesn't." "Opinion, therefore, would be neither ignorance nor knowledge?" "It doesn't seem so." "Is it, then, beyond these, surpassing either knowledge in clarity or ignorance in obscurity?" "No, it is neither." "Does opinion," I said, "look darker than knowledge to you and brighter than ignorance?" "Very much so," he said. 478b C "And does it lie within the limits set by these two?" d "Opinion, therefore, would be between the two." "That's entirely certain." "Weren't we saying before that if something should come to light as what is and what is not at the same time, it lies between that which purely and simply is and that which in every way is not, and that neither knowledge :nor ignorance will depend on it, but that which in its tum comes to light between ignorance and knowledge?" "Right." "And now it is just that which we call opinion that has come to light between them." "Yes, that is what has come to light." 478 e 479a b "Hence, as it seems, it would remain for us to find what par? ticipates in both-in to be and not to be-and could not correctly be addressed as either purely and simply, so that, if it comes to light, we can justly address it as the opinable, thus assigning the extremes to the extremes and that which is in between to that which is in between. Isn't that so?" "Yes, it is." "Now, with this taken for granted, let him tell me, I shall say, and let him answer-that good man who doesn't believe that there is any? thing fair in itself and an idea of the beautiful itself, which always stays the same in all respects, but does hold that there are many fair things, this lover of sights who can in no way endure it if anyone asserts the fair is one and the just is one and so on with the rest. 'Now, of these many fair things, you best of men; we'll say, 'is there any that won't also look ugly? And of the just, any that won't look unjust? And of the holy, any that won't look unholy?'" "No," he said, "but it's necessary that they look somehow both fair and ugly, and so it is with