those who take up the study of arguments in this way; and as I was just saying, don't they deserve much sympathy?" "And pity, too," he said. "Lest your thirtysyear-olds be recipients of this pity, mustn't you take every kind of pr.ecaution when they turn to arguments?" "Quite so," he said. "Isn't it one great precaution not to let them taste of arguments while they are young? I suppose you aren't unaware that when lads get their first taste of them, they misuse them as though it were play, al? ways using them to contradict; and imitating those men by whom they are refuted, they themselves refute others, like puppies enjoying pulling and tearing with argument at those who happen to be near." "They certainly have," he said, "a preternatural tendency in that direction." "Then when they themselves refute many men and are refuted by many, they fall quickly into a profound disbelief of what they formerly [ 218] believed. And as a result of this, you see, they themselves and the whole activity of philosophy become the objects of slander among the rest of men." "Very true," he said. "An older man, however," I said, "wouldn't be willing to par? ticipate in such madness. He will imitate the man who's willing to discuss and consider the truth rather than the one who plays and con? tradicts for the sake of the game. And he himself will be more sensible and will make the practice of discussion more honorable instead of more dishonorable." "That's right," he said. "And wasn't everything that was said before this also directed to precaution-that those with whom one shares arguments are to have orderly and stable natures, not as is done nowadays in sharing them with whoever chances by and comes to it without being suited for it." 539c d "Most certainly," he said. "If a man is to devote himself exclusively to steady and strenuous participation in arguments-exercising himself in a gymnastic that is the antistrophe of the bodily gymnastic-will double the number of years devoted to gymnastic suffice?" "Do you mean six years," he said, "or four?" "Don't worry about that," I said. "Set it down at five. Now, after this, they'll have to go down into that cave again for you, and they must be compelled to rule in the affairs of war and all the offices suitable for young men, so that they won't be behind the others in experience. And here, too, they must still be tested whether they will stand firm or give way when pulled in all directions." "How much time do you assign to this?" he said. "Fifteen years," I said. "And when they are fifty years old, those who have been preserved throughout and are in every way best at everything, both in deed and in knowledge, must at last be led to the end. And, lifting up the brilliant beams of their souls, they must be compelled to look toward that which provides light for