everything. Once they see the good itself, they must be compelled, each in his tum, to use it as a pattern for ordering city, private men, and themselves for the rest of their lives. For.the most part, each one spends his time in philosophy, but when his tum comes, he drudges in politics and rules for the city's sake, not as though he were doing a thing that is fine, but one that is necessary. And thus always educating other like men and leaving them behind in their place as guardians of the city, they go off e 540a b 540b C d e 541 a b to the Isles of the Blessed and dwell. The city makes public memorials and sacrifices to them as to demons, if the Pythia is in accord; if not, as to happy31 and divine men." "Just like a sculptor, Socrates," he said, "you have produced ruling men who are wholly fair." "And ruling women, too, Glaucon," I said. "Don't suppose that what I have said applies any more to men than to women, all those who are born among them with adequate natures." "That's right," he said, "if they are to share everything in com. mon equally with the men, as we described it." "What then?" I said. "Do you agree that the things we have said about the city and the regime are not in every way prayers; that they are hard but in a way possible; and that it is possible in no other way than the one stated: when the true philosophers, either one or more come to power in a city, they will despise the current honors and believe them to be illiberal and worth nothing. Putting what is right and the honors coming from it above all, while taking what is just as the greatest and the most necessary, and serving and fostering it, they will provide for their own city." "How?" he said. "All those in the city who happen to be older than ten they will send out to the country; and taking over their children, they will rear them-far away from those dispositions they now have from their parents-in their own manners and laws that are such as we described before. And, with the city and the regime of which we were speaking thus established most quickly and easily, it wil1 itself be happy and most profit the nation in which it comes to be." "That is by far the quickest and easiest way," he said. "And how it would come into being, if it ever were to come into being, you have, in my opinion, Socrates, stated well." "Isn't that enough already," I said, "for our arguments about this city and the man like it? For surely it's plain what sort of man we'll say he has to be." "It is plain," he said. "And as for what you ask, in my opinion this argument has reached its end." [ 220] BOOK VIII "All right.