(595a-608b) With the confrontation of the phi1osopher and the tyrant, the discussion appears to have reached its end, but Socrates once more raises the subject of poetry. This is surprising, and it is difficu]t to see why we shou]d return to this topic after the ]engthy discussion of it in Book III. That treatment, however, dea]t on]y with the uses and disadvantages of poetry in the education of the warriors, men who needed courage and the sa]utary ta1es which wou]d encourage it. Homer is the teacher of the Greeks, and his tit1e to that ro]e must be examined. In the ear1ier discussion, Homer's hero, Achi11es, was the theme; in this discussion, Homer himse]f is the theme. The Hght tone adopted by Socrates here, the ease with which he apparent1y dismisses poetry, must not cause one to forget that he is taking it very serious]y indeed. Poetry is the opponent, and there is an ancient quarre] between it and phi]osophy. Homer is read or Jistened to by a11 the Greeks; he speaks of a11 things in their interre]ations, and he te11s of the gods. Homer and the other great poets constitute the respectab]e tribuna1 [ 426] before which philosophy is tried. Socrates is afraid of being denounced to them, as though they were the law; and in a sense they do reflect that law and determine the opinions that make it. However, Book X at? tempts to reverse this situation. Socrates begins by making an apology to the poets and ends by opening the way for them to make an apology to him. Socrates does not wish to destroy poetry; he only wishes to judge it, rather than be judged by it. The other themes of Book X help to clarify the grounds for this final consideration of poetry. The immortality of the soul and the rewards of justice are also discussed, particularly the rewards after death. Moreover, Book X !minates in a poetic myth; after appearing to reject poetry, Socrates uses it to describe the cosmos and the fate of man, the broadest possible objects of human discourse. Poetry is necessary to Socrates' project of reforming Glaucon, but it must be a new kind of poetry, one which can sustain Glaucon in a life of moral virtue and respect for philosophy. It is not, then, that poetry must be entirely banished but that it must be reformed. Book X begins with a criticism of Homeric poetry and ends with an example of Socratic poetry. Separating the two is a discussion of the immortality of the soul. The difference between the old poetry and the new lies in their understanding of the soul; the old poetry seems to lead necessarily to a view of the soul which is inimical to philosophy. The cosmos or chaos of pre-Socratic poetry contained no support for either the moral or theoretical life. The River Ocean which surrounds Homer's world is a thing of constant, meaningless change. Poetry, taken-on its own ground, portraying those subjects on