be seen in their common source. The real problem treated in these passages is, therefore, not that of making the guardians courageous but of converting that primitive courage they possess by nature into civil courage. And that is the work of a poetry which leads to moderation. The pure form of spiritedness-that exhibited by Achilles -implies a certain "tragic view of life and the world," accord? ing to which justice receives no reward in eternity, and noble things are no more supported by nature than base ones. The only cure for this illness is that philosophy which consists of "learning how to die," the philosophy of which Socrates was the master. Philosophy leads to lack of concern with one's own; it is concerned with things that are not threatened, that exist always. The activity of philosophy-the soul's contemplation of the principles of all things-brings with it a pleasure of a purity and intensity that causes all other pleasures to pale. For the philosopher, living as most men do is equivalent to living in Hades as conceived by most men. He need not live according to myths which assure the permanence and significance of things which are not permanent or significant. Death is overcome by a lack of concern with one's individual fate, by forgetting it, in the contemplation of eternity. This is a life both noble and reasonable. The central quote among the seven at the beginning of Book III refers to Teiresias, a man who was wise on earth and who alone among the shades in Hades still possesses prudence or wisdom. Perhaps even Homer suggests that wisdom can exempt a man from the miseries of Hades. But the warriors are not wise and cannot enjoy the consolation of philosophy; therefore they need consoling myths which make death less frightening, which lessen the need for that furious spiritedness that consumes the element of gentleness in its flames. Socrates' intention in these passages of the Republic is made clearer by his behavior in the Apology. When he identifies himself with Achilles there, he is trying to impress his audience with his dedication to philosophy; and nothing impresses the vulgar so much as a man who is willing to die for a cause. Therefore Socrates assimilates himself to the most popular example of such a man. He indicates that the mem? bers of the jury are men who fear death and that he himself does not. The jurors are like Achilles inasmuch as they hold that property, family, friends, and city are the good things. The only way they could overcome their fear of death, their fear of the loss of these perishable things, is as Achilles did-in defense of those things, in defense of their own. But this spirited defense of one's own is precisely what Socrates is suffering from; he is being condemned because he threatens Athens. Soc? rates' own fearlessness stems from other sources. After his condemnation hedivides his jurors into two groups, those who had voted for