laws in the tenns suitable to it. Whatever the character of this class, the city's way of life will be detennined by it. This is what Thrasymachus meant when he said that justice is the advantage of the stronger. The members of this class do not. necessarily possess wisdom or any other element of virtue. If Socrates and his companions wish to establish a good regime without having to compromise with mere power, it is this crucial class they must control and train. They need not preoccupy themselves with the wage-earning class, for it will be unable to resist the commands of the warriors. The instrument for controlling the warriors is education and, therefore, from this point forward education is the central theme of the Republic. The city's way of life depends on the character and hence the education of the rulers. Socrates and Glaucon have established this class of spinted war? riors to protect the city from its enemies, but they quickly become aware of its problematic character. What is to prevent these men who are so savage to foreigners from being savage with their fellow citizens? Although they are supposed to guard the flock, they are likely to ex? ploit it. What in their nature will permit them to be geritle to their charges? Gentleness and harshness seem very like contrary charac? teristics, and good guardians thus appear to be impossible. But Soc? rates, on second thought, recognizes that the animals to whom they compared the guardians do combine gentleness and harshness: dogs are gentle to those they know and harsh to those they do not know. Soc? rates most surprisingly draws the conclusion that the good guardian is possible if, in addition to being spirited, his nature is philosophic. Judging friends and enemies by the criterion of knowledge and ignorance is, he says, the way of philosophy, and thus philosophy is the principle of gentleness. In a book famous for the proposal that philosophers be kings, this is the first mention of philosophy or philosophers. Philosophy is invoked in the city only for the purpose of solving a political problem. This identification of dog-like affection for acquaintances with philosophy is, of course, not serious. It only serves to prepare the way for the true emergence of philosophy in Book V and to heighten the difference between philosopher and warrior. The philosophers are gentle men because they pursue knowledge and not gain; their object does not entail exploitation of others. The love of knowledge is a motive necessary to the rulers of this city in order to temper their love of victory and wealth. But the philosophers are the opposites of the dogs inasmuch as they are always questing to know that of which they are ignorant, whereas the dogs must cut themselves off from the un? known and are hostile to foreign charms. They love their own and not the good. And this must be so, for otherwise they would not make the necessary distinction between their