face. But finally, overpowered by the desire, he opened his eyes wide, ran toward the corpses and said: 'Look, you damned wretches, take your fill of the fair sight."' "I too have heard it," he said. "This speech," I said, "certainly indicates that anger sometimes makes war against the desires as one thing against something else." "Yes," he said, "it does indicate that." "And in many other places, don't we," I said, "notice that, when desires force someone contrary to calculation, he reproaches him? self and his spirit is roused against that in him which is doing the forc? ing; and, just as though there were two parties at faction, such a man's spirit becomes the ally of speech? But as for its making common cause with the desires to do what speech has declared must not be done, I suppose you'd say you had never noticed anything of the kind happen? ing in yourself, nor, I suppose, in anyone else." "No, by Zeus," he said. "And what about when a man supposes he's doing injustice?" I said. "The nobler he is, won't he be less capable of anger at suffering hunger, cold or anything else of the sort inflicted on him by one whom he supposes does so justly; and, as I say, won't his spirit be unwilling to rouse itself against that man?" "True," he said. 439d e 440a b C 440c d e 441 a b "And what about when a man believes he's being done injustice? Doesn't his spirit in this case boil and become harsh and fonn an alliance for battle with what seems just; and, even if it suffers in hunger, cold and everything of the sort, doesn't it stand firm and con? quer, and not cease from its noble efforts before it has succeeded, or death intervenes, or before it becomes gentle, having been called in by the speech within him like a dog by a herdsman?"31 "Most certainly, it resembles the likeness you make. And, of course, we put the auxiliaries in our city like dogs obedient to the rulers, who are like shepherds of a city." "You have," I said, "a fine understanding of what I want to say. But beyond that, are you aware of this too?" "What?" "That what we are now bringing to light about the spirited is the opposite of our recent assertion. Then we supposed it had something to do with the desiring part; but now, far from it, we say that in the fac? tion of the soul it sets its arms on the side of the calculating part." "Quite so," he said. "Is it then different from the calculating part as well, or is it a par? ticular form of it so that there aren't three forms in the soul but two, the calculating and the desiring? Or just as there were three classes in the city that held it together, money-making, auxiliary, and delibera? tive, is there in the soul too this third,