numbers, but it can mean the power to reason, particularly deduc? tively. The translation "calculation" indicates both senses and underlines the rather practical or common:-sense way in which reason makes its appearance in the Republic. 7. Alogiston, the part without logos. 8. Athens was connected to the Piraeus by two walls, and there was a third which ran to Phalerum. This made a system of enclosed fortified spaces. The two walls leading to the Piraeus were called the North Wall and the Mid? dle Wall. 9. The word for executioner is one that means literally "he who belongs to the people." It is curious to note that the man who kills for the people is the one awarded the generic name. 10. It is not clear whether the passage refers to spirit or the man with spirit. If the latter is the case, ..he" should be substituted for "it" throughout the speech. 11. Cf. 390d. 12. Cf. Odyssey, XIX, 547. 13. Cf. 428e, note 13. 14. The last words of this sentence, beginning with ..to that which... ," are based on the reading of inferior manuscripts. The reading of all the best manuscripts yields no tolerable sense, and the passage may be corrupt. Book V 1. The following scene recapitulates the beginning of the dialogue where Polemarchus is also the agent of Socrates' arrest. There, too, a cloak is held. This signifies a new beginning of the book. 2. Eidos. 3. 423e. 4. This is again the language of the democratic political assembly, com? pelling Socrates' service (cf. 327c-328b, note 6). 5. Literally, "to smelt ore in order to get gold." It is proverbial for some- one who goes off on a wild goose chase, forgetting the business at hand, in. the hope of making a great profit. 1. Another name for Nemesis who punishes the immoderate and rogant. This name for Nemesis probably stems from Adrastus, ancient king of Argos, who established an altar. to her. Aeschylus is t.lie first author in the ex? tant Greek literature to mention Adrasteia ("The wise prostrate themselves before Adrasteia," Prometheus, 36). The name of the goddess, the poet brought to mind here, and this context (which is an implicit attack on all exist? ing cities and their most sacred laws) call to mind Adrastus, who led the attack of the Seveti Against Thebes. All were killed save Adrastus, who made his escape on a winged black horse. 2. This is again legal terminology, referring to the treatment of men who commit accidental homicide. The killer was believed hateful to the gods and polluted by his act. The punishment under the Athenian Draconian law was exile, but the killer could be absolved and purified by a member of the victim's family, or by the victim himself before he died. (Cf. Laws, 865 ff., and 869e.) 3. A probable allusion to Aristophanes' Ecclesiazusae, which also pro? posed the emancipation of women and communism. 4. Wrestling schools for the young prior to the,age when they