and quarrels among themselves, and justice that produces unanimity and friendship. Isn't it so?" "Let it be so, so as not to differ with you." "And it's good of you to do so, you best of men. Now tell me this: if it's the work of injustice, wherever it is, to implant hatred, then, when injustice comes into being, both among free men and slaves, will it not also cause them to hate one another and to form factions, and to be unable to accomplish anything in common with one another?" "Certainly." "And what about when injustice comes into being between two? Will they not differ and hate and be enemies to each other and to just men?" "They will," he said. "And if, then, injustice should come into being within one man, you surprising fellow, will it lose its power or will it remain undimi ? ished?" "Let it remain undiminished," he said. "Then does it come to light as possessing a power such that, wherever it comes into being, be it in a city, a clan, an army, or whatever else, it first of all makes that thing unable to accomplish any? thing together with itself due to faction and difference, and then it makes that thing an enemy both to itself and to everything opposite and to the just? Isn't it so?" "Certainly." "And then when it is in one man, I suppose it will do the same thing which it naturally accomplishes. First it-will make him unable to act, because he is at faction and is not of one mind with himself, and, second, an enemy both to himself and to just men, won't it?" "Yes.,, "And the gods, too, my friend, are just?'' 345. a "Let it be," he said. b "Then the unjust man will also be an enemy to the gods, Thra- symachus, and the just man a friend." "Feast yourself boldly on the argument," he said, "for I won't op- pose you, so as not to irritate these men here." ' "Come, then," I said, "fill out the rest of the banquet for me by answering just as you have been doing. I understand that the just come to light as wiser and better and more able to accomplish something, while the unjust can't accomplish anything with one another-for we don't speak the complete truth about those men who we say vigorously c accomplished some common object with one another although they were unjust; they could never have restrained themselves with one another if they were completely unjust, but it is plain that there was a certain justice in them which caused them at least not to do injustice to one another at the same time that they, were seeking to do it to others; and as result of this they accomplished what they accomplished, and they pursued unjust deeds when they were only half bad from injustice, since the wholly bad and perfectly unjust are also perfectly unable to accomplish anything-I