radical form. He cuts out many of the exchanges of the interlocutors and suppresses entire arguments which do not seem to him to con? tribute to the movement of the dialogue. Although he claims his wish is to fulfill Plato's intentions in a modern context, he finally c_onfesses that "the convention of question and answer becomes formal and frequently tedious. Plato himself came near to abandoning it in his latest work, the Laws ... " (ibid., p. vii). Cornford thus improves on Plato, correcting him in what he believes to be the proper direction. He thinks the dialogue form is only a convention, and, when it fatigues him, he aban? dons it: It is at precisely thi_s point that/4:>ne_ shoul beg n to ask whether we understand what a dialogue really 1s. It 1s neither poetry nor philosophy; it is something of both, but it is itself and not a mere com? bination of the two. The fact that sometimes it does not meet the stan? dards of the dramatic art reveals the same thing as the fact that sometimes the arguments are not up to the standards of philosophical rigor/Plato's intention is different from that of the poet or the philosopher as we understand them. To call the dialogue a convention is to hide the problem. Perhaps this very tedium of which Cornford complains isAhe test which Plato gives to the potential philosopher to see whether he is capable of overcoming the charm of external form;{ for a harsh concentration on often ugly detail is requisite to the philosophic enterpriseAt is the concentration on beauty to the detri? ment of truth which constitutes the core of his critique of poetry, just as the indifference to forms, and hence to man, constitutes the core of his criticism of pre-Socratic ;philosophy /The dialogue is the synthesis of these two poles and is an organic unity. Every argument must be inter? preted dramatically, for every argument is incomplete in itself and only the context can supply the missing links. And every dramatic detail must be interpreted philosophically, because these details contain the images of the problems which complete the arguments. Separately these two aspects are meaningless; together they are an invitation to the philosophic quest. Cornford cites the Laws as proof that Plato gradually mended his ways; thus he has a certain Platonic justification for his changes in the text. But the difference in form between the Republic and the Laws is not a result of Plato's old age having taught him the defects of his man? nered drama, as Cornford would have it, or its having caused him to lose his dramatic flair, as others assert. Rather the difference reflects the differences in the participants in the dialogues and thereby the dif? ference of intention of the two works. This is just one example of what is typical of every part of the Platonic works. By way of the drama one comes to the profoundest issues. In the Republic Socrates discusses