"In your opinion, is this really baser," I said, "than when some? one not only wastes most of his life in courtrooms defending and ac? cusing, but, from inexperience in fair thmgs, is also persuaded to pride himself on this very thing, because he is clever at doing injustice and competent at practicing every dodge, escaping through every loophole by writhing and twisting and thereby not paying the penalty, and all this for the sake of little and worthless things; ignorant of how much finer and better it is to arrange his life so as to have no need of a dozing judge?" "No," he said, "but this case is even baser than the other one." "And," I said, "needing medicine, not because one has met with wounds or some of the seasonal maladies, but as a result of idleness and a way of life such as we described, full of humors and winds like a marsh, compelling the subtle Asclepiads54 to give names like 'flatu? lences' and 'catarrhs' to diseases, doesn't that seem base?" "Quite so," he said. "How truly new and strange are these names for diseases." "Such," I said, "as didn't exist in the time of Asclepius, as I sup? pose. I infer this from the fact that at Troy his sons didn't blame the woman who gave the wounded Eurypylus Pramneian wine to ..drink with a great deal of barley and grated cheese sprinkled on it; and it's just these that are thought to be inflammatory; nor did they criticize 406 Patroclus who was healing."55 "But for all of that," he said, "the drink is certainly strange for one in that condition." "No, it isn't," I said, "if only you recognize that this current art of medicine which is an education in disease was not used by the Ascle? piads of former times, or so they say, until Herodicus came on the scene. He was a gymnastic master and became sickly; so 'he mixed gymnastic with medicine, and he first and foremost worried himself to death, then many others afterwards." "In what way?" he said. "He drew out his death," I said. "Attending the mortal disease, he wasn't able to cure it, I suppose, and spent his whole life treating it with no leisure for anything else, mightily distressed ifhe departed a bit from his accustomed regimen. So,.finding it hard to die, thanks to his wisdom, he came to an old age." "Well," he said, "that was a fine prize56 he won for his art." "Such as is fitting," I said, "for one who didn't know that it wasn't from ignorance or inexperience in this form of medicine that Asclepius didn't reveal it to his offspring, but rather because he knew that for all men obedient to good laws a certain job has been assigned to each in the city at which he is compel1ed to work, and no one has the leisure to be sick throughout life and treat himself. Ifs laughable that we recognize