he would be far more serious about the deeds than the imitations and would try to leave many fair deeds behind as memorials of himself and would be more eager to be the one who is lauded rather than the one who lauds." "I suppose so," he said. "For the honor and the benefit coming from the two are hardly equal." "Well, then, about the other things, let's not demand an account from Homer or any other .of the poets by asking, if any one of them was a doctor and not only an imitator of medical. speeches, who are the men whom any poet, old or new, is said to have made healthy, as Asclepius did; or what students of medicine he left behind as Asclepius did his offspring.1 Nor, again, will we ask them about the other arts, but we'll let that go. But about the greatest and fairest things of which Homer attempts to speak-about wars and commands of armies and governances of cities, and about the education of a human being-it is surely just to ask him and inquire, 'Dear Homer, if you are not third from the truth about virtue, a craftsman of a phantom, just the one we defined as an imitator, but are also second and able to recog? nize what sorts of practices make human beings better or worse in private and in public, tell us which of the cities was better governed thanks to you, as Lacedaemon was thanks to Lycurgus, and many others, both great and small, were thanks to many others? What city gives you credit for having proved a good lawgiver and ben? efited them? Italy and Sicily do so for Charondas, and we for So? lon;2 now who does it for you?' Will he have any to mention?" "I don't suppose so," said Claucon. "At least, the Homeridae themselves do not te11 of any." "We11, is any war in Homer's time remembered that was well fought with his ruling or advice?" "None." "W"ell, then, as is appropriate to the deeds of a wise man, do they tell of many ingenious devices for the arts or any other activities, just as for Thales the Milesian or Anacharsis the Scythian?"3 "Not at all; there's nothing of the sort." "Well, then, if there is nothing in public, is it told that Homer, while he was himself alive, was in private a leader in education for certain men who cherished him for his intercourse and handed down a certain Homeric way of life to those who came after, just as Py? thagoras hims lf was particularly cherished for this reason, and his successors even now still give Pythagoras' name to a way of life that makes them seem somehow outstanding among men." "Again," he said, "nothing of the sort is said. For Creophylos, Homer's comrade, would, Socrates, perhaps turn out to be even more ridiculous in his education than in his name,4 if the things said about Homer are true. For