as Socrates will show, this artisan of selfish satisfaction is really not in harmony with the vulgar tastes Thra? symachus is also committed to supporting. It is by developing this con? tradiction that Socrates will be able to tame the wild beast. Thrasymachus could easily have circumvented the difficulty which Socrates presents. The crude Clitophon, who enters to defend Thrasymachus, shows Polemarchus (who is now Socrates' ally and de? fe_n.d@r) how obvious this route is. Tlirasymachus had only to say, as Clitophon insists he meant, that justice is what appears to be the ad? vantage of the stronger. This position is close to that of legal positivism: the just is what the city says is just and nothing more. Clito? . phon asserts. the laws established by the rulers are based on their ap? parent advantage. This position may not be true but it does not defy common sense, and it seems based on the actual practice of cities. The thesis merely asserts that the only source and sanction of law is the sovereign and that it is hence benighted to look for higher justification. There is no need to define rulers by any criterion other than their hav? ing the power to make laws in the city, and the question of what is truly advantageous is set aside. Clitophon's solution to Socrates' difficulty does not contain those internal contradictions which bring about Thra? symachu:s' downfall. Thrasymachus, however, chooses to respond to Socrates' objection by arguing that the ruler is always right and knows his own advantage. The ruler who makes mistakes is not a ruler; that is, almost all rulers are not really rulers. It is not that rulers do behave with scientific selfishness but that they should. Thrasymachus, as it were, anticipates Socrates' best regime by developing an alternative opposed to it. As in Socrates' good city, where rulers will be trained who are perfectly public-spirited, so in Thrasymachus' there will be rulers who are per? fectly selfish; the rulers in both regimes do have in common, however, the fact that they are knowers. Thrasymachus' regime is as improbable and opposed to experience as is Socrates'. Rather than defend the plausible observation that rulers of selfish intention are the source of law, Thrasymachus encumbers himself with the responsibility for what amounts to a moral imperative, requiring rulers to be selfish with per? fect knowledge. Why does Thrasymachus do so? In the first place, he has simply thought through the consequences of his position, unlike the advocates of a crude positivism. H law has no deeper authority than human con- [ 329 1 vention, any man who reflects at all on what kind of life he should live realizes he cannot rely on the law for guidance. Every man rea? sonably pursues his own good, and, if there is no common good, he will properly use the law for his own private satisfaction. This is the lesson which the individual can well draw from the teaching that law is