for himself and does not care to be taken in by edifying preaching which will cause him to miss the enjoyment of the objects of his desires. Glaucon presents the political supplement to pre-Socratic natural philosophy: the city limits men in the pursuit of the good things, but its only justification for doing so is the need to preserve itself. According to Glaucon, the character of justice can be discovered in its origin; the nature of a thing, in his view, is to be understood by that from which it comes, by its beginning and not its end. Nature dictates the pursuit of one's own good, but because of the scarcity of good things, this pursuit must be carried on at the expense of others. It is good to take from others what belongs to them, and it is bad to have things taken which belong to oneself; but the badness of the latter ex? ceeds the goodness of the former. For those who cannot succeed at tak? ing without also being taken from, it is better to compromise, giving up the one and gaining immunity from the other. Such a compromise, however, constitutes no more than a human construction, a contract. It does not overcome nature, which still impels a man to get what he wants without considering the contract; it is simply a recognition of the imprudence of doing so. Since the city's justice does not make men good or happy, able men who have the arts of force and deception can, and in all reason should, continue to follow the dictates of nature. In other words, superior men are not bound by the contract for they do not receive any advantage from it. In this perspective, justice is the simple, unadorned will, following the contract, to avoid injuring other men, whether this means obeying the laws set down to this end or equitably correcting the law so as to fulfill its intention. There is, then, no particular knowledge or ability implied in being just; it is merely the performance of a difficult task that goes against the grain of one's desires. Thrasymachus had said that the laws were made for the ad? vantage of the stronger, meaning by "the stronger" whatever party hap? pens to hold power. Glaucon implicitly accuses him of holding a con? ventional view of the stronger. There is a naturally strong man, and for him to obey the laws would serve the advantage of the conventionally, or politically, stronger but of the naturally weaker. But, from either standpoint, the law-abiding man is an innocent, and Glaucon adopts Thrasymachus' notion of the just man as the simple, honest server of other men's interest. And it is this understanding of justice that Glau? con asks Socrates to defend. Socrates must show that the man who is whipped, racked, chained, and has his eyes burned out because men believe him to be unjust will be blessedly happy if only he possesses justice; while the prudent, courageous,