see what you call this craftsman here." b. "Which one?" "He who makes everything that each one of the manual artisans makes separately." "That's a clever and wonderful man you speak of." "Not yet. In an instant you'll say that even more. For this same manual artisan is not only able to make all implements but also makes everything that grows naturally from the earth, and he produces all animals-the others and himself too-and, in addition to that, pro? duces earth and heaven and gods and everything in heaven and every? thing in Hades under the earth." b. "That's quite a wonderful sophist you speak of," he said. "Are you distrustful?" I said. "And tell me, in your opinion could there be altogether no such craftsman; or in a certain way, could a maker of all these things come into being and in a certain way not? Or aren't you aware that you yourself could in a certain way make all these things?" Book X I 595c-597b GLAUCONf SOCRATES "And what," he said, "is that way?" "It's not hard," I said. "You could fabricate them quickly in many ways and most quickly, of course, if you are willing to take a mirror and carry it around everywhere; quickly you will make the sun and the things in the heaven; quickly, the earth; and quickly, yourself and the other animals and implements and plants and everything else that was just now mentioned." "Yes," he said, "so that they look like they are; however, they surely are not in truth." "Fine," I said, "and you attack the argument at just the right place. For I suppose the painter is also one of these craftsmen, isn't he.?" 596 d e "Of course he is." "But I suppose you'll say that he doesn't truly make what he makes. And yet in a certain way the painter too does make a couch, doesn't he?" "Yes," he said, "he too makes what looks like a couch." "And what about the couchmaker? Weren't you just saying that he doesn't make the form, which is what we, of course, say is just a couch, but a certain couch?" "Yes," he said, "I was saying that." "Then, if he doesn't make what is, he wouldn't make the being but something that is like the being, but is not being. And if someone were to assert that the work of the producer of couches or of any other manual artisan is completely being, he would run the risk of saying what's not true." "Yes," he said, "at least that would be the opinion of those who spend their time in arguments of this kind." "Therefore, let's not be surprised if this too turns out to be a dim thing compared to the truth." "No, let's not." "Do you," I said, "want us on the basis of these very things to investigate who this imitator is?" "If you want to," he said. "There tum out, then, to be these three kinds