noth? ing more than the sovereign's will; and the intelligent tyrant seems to be the one who has best learned the lesson. The ruler is hence a man who seeks his own advantage; to do so is almost the only alternative, since other goals are illusory. If he fails to attain it, he is a failure as a ruler and a man. Thrasymachus looks at politics from the point of view of the man who wants to live well and has understood the nature of justice; it is this perspective which causes him to go beyond Clitophon's formulation. Further, to the extent that in this drama Thrasymachus plays the role of the city, he echoes the city's insistence that it knows the truth. For the city could hardly admit that its laws are essentially fallible. Its pronouncements must be authoritative, and all knowledge, divine or human, must be ratified and codified by the sovereign. It has a monopoly of wisdom. Otherwise every individual would have an ap? peal from it. And, finally, Thrasymachus as the practitioner and teacher of an art, one which he believes to be the most important art for men who want to live a good life, must make a claim himself to possess knowledge and to be able to convey that knowledge to others. As Soc? rates suggests, he is in Athens looking for students, whose money he needs in order to live. He directs his appeal to noble, political youths of high ambition. They wish to be rulers. But if there is no art the posses? sion of which makes a man a ruler and enables him to attain the good sought for in the activity of ruling, what would Thrasymachus have to teach them? Clitophon's argument implies that the ruler is defined only by holding office, not by any particular skill which gives him the capacity to attain his end. This would be disastrous for Thrasymachus' profession. He therefore claims he teaches a skill which can make men rulers, in the sense that they will be able to fulfill their wishes. The or? dinary ruler is potentially the completely successful selfish ruler. He cannot be understood without reference to this end any more than the doctor can be understood without reference fo the end of curing sick men. A ruler who errs about his advantage is not as such a ruler any more than a mathematician who errs in calculation is as such a math? ematician. Thrasymachus promises political success to his students. His definition of the rulers "in the precise sense" is part of his profes? sional propaganda. [ 330] In the discussion of this definition of the ruler who is a perfect knower of an art, we see that Thrasymachus is not merely a lover of gain. He is also, in his way, a lover of knowledge. He is a model of that not uncommon phenomenon, "the intellectual." His Qassion are in the service of things other than knowledge although he devotes