that we'll give the good men and women what is con? ducive to their training at the same time as honoring them." "What you say," he said, "is quite fine." "All right. As for those who die on a campaign, won't we first say that the man who died in earning a good reputation is a member of the golden class?"ao "Most of all." "Won't we believe Hesiod that when any of that class die, They become holy demons dwelling on earth, 469 t Good, warders-off of evil, guardians of humans endowed with speech?"31 "We certainly will believe him." "We'll inquire, therefore, of the god how the demonic and divine beings should be buried and with what distinction, and we'll bury them as he indicates." "Of course we shall." "And for the rest of time we11 care for their tombs and worship at them as at those of demons. And we'll make the same conventions for l any one of those who have been judged exceptionally good in life when dying of old age or in some other way." "That is only just," he said. "And what about this? How will our soldiers deal with enemies?" "In what respect?" "First, as to enslavement: which seems just, that Greek cities enslave Greeks; or that they, insofar as possible, not even allow another city to do it but make it a habit to spare the Greek stock, well aware of c the danger of enslavement at the hands of the barbarians?" "Sparing them," he said, "is wholly and entirely superior." "And, therefore, that they not themselves possess a Greek as slave, and give the same advice to the other Greeks?" "Most certainly," he said. "At any rate in that way they would be more inclined to tum to the barbarians and keep off one another." "What about this?" I said. "When they win, is it a fine practice to strip the dead of anything more than their arms? Or doesn't it provide a pretext for cowards not to attack the man who's still fighting, as though a they were doing something necessary in poking around the dead, while many an army before now has been lost as a consequence of this plun- dering?" "Quite so." "Doesn't it seem illiberal and greedy to plunder a corpse, and the mark of a small, womanish mind to hold the enemy to be the body of the dead enemy who's flown away and left behind that with which he fought? Or do you suppose that the men who do this are any different from the dogs who are harsh with the stones thrown at them but don't e touch the one who is throwing them?" "Not in the least," he said. "They must, therefore, leave off stripping corpses and prevent- ing their recovery?" "Yes indeed," he said, "they must, by Zeus." "And, further, we surely won't bring the arms to the temples as 69. e votive offerings, especially those of the Greeks, if we care at