the others. We'll say that when such men come to be in the other cities it is fitting for them not to participate in the labors of those cities. For they grow up spontaneously against the will of the regime in each; and a nature that grows by itself and doesn't owe its rearing to anyone has justice on its side when it is not eager to pay off Book VII I 519b-52lb SOCRATES/GLAUCON the price of rearing to anyone. 'But you we have begotten for your? selves and for the rest of the city like leaders and kings in hives; you have been better and more perfectly educated and are more able to par? ticipate in both lives. So you must go down, each in his tum, into the common dwelling of the others and get habituated along with them to seeing the dark things. And, in getting habituated to it, you will see ten thousand times better than the men there, and you'll know what each of the phantoms is, and of what it is a phantom, because you have seen the truth about fair, just, and good things. And thus, the city will be governed by us and by you in a state of waking, not in a dream as the many cities nowadays are governed by men who fight over shadows with one another and form factions for the sake of ruling, as though it were some great good. But the truth is surely this: that city in which those who are going to rule are least eager to rule is necessarily governed in the way that is best and freest from faction, while the one that gets the opposite kind of rulers is governed in the opposite way.'" "Most certainly," he said. "Do you suppose our pupils will disobey us when they hear this and be unwilling to join in the labors of the city, each in his tum, while living the greater part of the time with one another in the pure re- oor ' "Impossible," he said. "For surely we shall be laying just injunc? tions on just men. However, each of them will certainly approach ruling as a necessary thing-which is the opposite of what is done by those who now rule in every city." "That's the way it is, my comrade," I said. "If you discover a life better than ruling for those who are going to rule, it is possible that your well-governed city will come into being. For here alone will the really rich rule, rich not in gold but in those riches required by the hap? py man, rich in a good and prudent life. But if beggars, men hungering for want of private goods, go to public affairs supposing that in them they must seize the good, it isn't possible. When ruling becomes a thing fought over, such a war-a domestic war, one within the family-de? stroys these men themselves and the rest of the city as