in a condition worthy of the philosophic nature. And this is why it is twisted and changed; just as a foreign seed sown in alien ground is likely to be overcome and fade away into the native stock, so too this class does not at present maintain its own power but falls away 497 l into an alien disposition. But if it ever takes hold in the best regime, just as it is itself best, then it will make plain that it really is divine as we agreed it is and that the rest are human, both in terms of their natures and their practices. Of course, it's plain that next you'll ask what this regime is." "You've not got it," he said. "That's not what I was going to ask, but whether it is the same one we described in founding the city or another." "It is the same in the other respects," I said, "and, in this very one too, which was stressed in connection with it-that there would always have to be present in the city something possessing the same un? derstanding of the regime as you, the lawgiver, had when you were set? ting down the laws." "Yes," he said, "that point was made." "But it wasn't made sufficiently plain," I said, "from fear of what you people, with your insistence, have made plain-that its demon? stration would be long and hard. And now what's left is by no means the easiest to go through." "What is it?" "How a city can take philosophy in hand without being destroyed. For surely all great things carry with them the risk of a fall, and, really as the saying goes, fine things are hard." "All the san e," he said, "let the proof get its completion by clear? ing this up." "It won't be hindered by a lack of willingness, but, if by anything, by a lack of capacity," I said. "You'll be on hand to see my eagerness at least. Consider how eagerly and recklessly I am going to say now that the way a city takes up this practice should be just the opposite of what is done nowadays." "How?" "Nowadays," I said, "those who take it up at all are lads fresh from childhood; in the interval before running a household and making 498 money, they approach its hardest part and then leave, those, that is, who are fancied to be complete philosophers. I mean by the hardest part that which has to do with speeches.19 In later life, if others are doing this and they are invited, they believe it's a great thing if they are willing to be listeners, thinking it ought to be done as a hobby. Toward old age, except of course for a certain few, they are far more extin- guished than Heracleitus' sun,20 inasmuch as they are not re- kindled again." "How ought it to be?" he said. 498 b C d e 499 a b "Entirely opposite. When