plays an important role in the dialogue. 8. Cephalus was not an Athenian citizen but a metic, that is, an alien who is allowed to settle in Athens and who pays taxes but enjoys no civil rights. He was originally from Syracuse. 9. The expression means that the man is about to pass into the other world; he is at that stage of old age when he can be said to stand on the thresh? old of Hades (cf. Iliad, XXII, 60, XXIV, 487; Odyssey, XV, 246). In the Iliad, it occurs both times in the mouth of the wretched Priam. 1.3. "Like to like" (cf. Phaedrus, 240c). 14. The Greek word is anthropos, the generic word for a member of the human species. The word for a male human being is aner. This is an important distinction in Greek and allows for considerable subtlety in the use of the terms. On the first level, anthropos is clearly the lower term; it signifies the mere participation in the minimal qualities of the species, whereas an aner is distinctly a real man, one who has developed his male humanity and can par? ticipate in the highest functions of a man, politics, and war. But, on a second level, the full or final end of humanity may transcend mere maleness and include activities different from, and contrary to, those of the real man [cf. Callicles' attack on the philosophers from the point of view of manliness (Gorgias, 484c ff.)]. In this sense, anthropos would be the deeper and more meaningful term. In Book V Socrates suggests that the best regime, and implicitly the best human being, is a combination of male and female. Unfor? tunately no term in English adequately translates aner; and the word "man" cannot be reserved for it since "man" must often be added where it does not exist in Greek (for example, "the good man" is in Greek merely "the good"). Anthropos will regularly be translated as "human being." 14. This is Aristophanes' description of Sophocles in Frogs, 82. 15. "The many" is a translation of hoi polloi and implies all that the lat? ter term means to us. It is frequently translated by "the mass," "the mob," and other such terms which are appropriate in the extent to which they indicate the class to which Plato refers. For Plato, however, the fact of number-the simple fact that this class contains the majority of men-is of decisive impor? tance. The great number of men share common traits, and, when they dom? inate, they necessarily lend a certain character to the regime. Politically the expression is used in contrast to the one and the few. Ultimately it reflects the theoretical problem of "the one and the many." Every time it is used, it is meant to call up a cluster of meanings. Here the temptation to translate it by "most people" must be resisted, for such a translation would obscure the fact that Socrates is referring to a class