of philosophy's powerful opponent in Book X. (571a-592b) At last Socrates comes to his description of the tyrant. He is the public fulfillment of the private desires which first quietly entered the city hidden in the soul of the timocratic man. Once the pleasure of philosophy has disappeared, man is split between duty and desire with no adequate motive for the choice of duty over desire. Socrates indicates that the tyrant's life would be the appropriate choice of a way of life if philosophy did not exist, if the bodily pleasures were the only pleasures and the mind had no pleasures of its own. The self? control demanded by morality has no cosmic support if it is not in the service of a higher pleasure. The timocratic man's devotion to duty is groundless, and the oligarchic and democratic men represent unsteady compromises between duty and desire. Socrates can only prove the in? feriority of the tyrannic life to Glaucon by way of the superiority of the philosophic life, of which Glaucon has only a glimmering. To be sure, he has been prepared for the choice by the beautiful images of the philosophic life in_Book VII and by the moral indignation evoked by the decay of political life d picted in Book VIII. But, although all men readily admit that to live under a tyranny is the worst of political fates, they are not so ready to admit that the tyrant is 1:he unhappiest of men, precisely because he has succeeded in winning the struggle for those scarce goods which reputedly make a man happy. It is to this problem that Socrates addresses himself in Book IX. Socrates characterizes the tyrant as the erotic man; and eros, as Cephalus said in the very beginning of the dialogue, is a mad master. Socrates now makes a further distinction among the unnecessary desires; some of them are law-abiding, and others are law-breaking. The erotic desires lead to breaking of the law, to daring everything, to that omnivorous taste for all good things which makes a man the enemy oflaw and other men. The democratic man was unerotic, and this.gave him an easygoing, harmless quality and rendered him innocuous. His lack of erotic passion prevented him from taking anything very seriously. This is not the case with a man whose sexual passion is very intens.e. Glaucon is such a man, and it is the wish to satisfy this part of his nature that attracts him to tyranny; for tyranny is the only regime in which no. satisfaction can be denied him-it provides the freedom, power, and money a lover needs. Eros is the most dangerous and powerful of the desires, an infinite longing which consumes all other at? tachments in its heat. It, too, however, is ambiguous. Up to this point the Republic has continuously attacked eras when it has not overlooked it. It is hard to imagine that its author is also the author of the Sympo? sium and the Phaedrus. But it