content to receive the unwilling lie and, when it is caught somewhere being ignorant, isn't vexed but easily accommodates itself, like a swinish beast, to wallowing in lack of learning?" "That's entirely certain," he said. "And with respect to moderation," I said, "and courage and magnificence and all the parts of virtue, a special guard must be kept for the man who is bastard and the one who is genuine. When a private man and a city don't know how to make a complete consideration of such things, for whatever services they happen to need they unawares employ lame men and bastards as friends or rulers." "That's just the way it is," he said. "So," I said, "we must take good care of all such things since, if we bring men straight of limb and understanding to so important a study and so important a training and educate them, Justice herself will not blame us, and we shall save the city and the regime; while, in bringing men of another sort to it, we shall do exactly the opposite and also pour even more ridicule over philosophy." "That," he said, "would indeed be shameful." "Most certainly," I said. "But I seem to have been somewhat ridiculously affected just now." "How's that?" he said. "I forgot," I said, "that we were playing and spoke rather in? tensely. For, as I was talking I looked at Philosophy and, seeing her underservingly spattered with mud, I seem to have been vexed and said . what I had to say too seriously as though my spiritedness were aroused against those who are responsible." "No, by Zeus," he said, "that's not the way you seemed to me, the listener." "But to me, the speaker," I said. "And let's not forget that in our former selection we were picking old men, but in this one that isn't admissi? ble. For we mustn't trust Solon when he says that in growing old a man is able to learn much; he'.s less able to do that than to run, and all the great and numerous labor; belong to the young." "Necessarily," he said. "Well then, the study of calculation and geometry and all the pre? paratory education required for dialectic must be put before them as children, and the instruction must not be given the aspect of a compul? sion to learn." 535 d e 536 a b C d 536d e 537 a b C d "Why not?" "Because," I said, "the free man ought not to ]earn any study slavishly. Forced labors performed by the body don't make the body any worse, but no forced study abides in a sou1." "True," he said. "Therefore, you best of men," I said, "don't use force in training the children in the studies, but rather play. In that way you can also better discern what each is natura11y directed toward." "What you say makes sense." he said. "Don't you remember," I said, "that we also said that the children