travail and anguish." "Yes, it is necessary." "Then, just as the pleasures that came to be in him later got the better of the old ones and took away what belonged to them, so won't he, a younger man, claim he deserves to get the better of his father and mother and, if he has spent his own part, take away and distribute the paternal property?" "Of course," he said. "And then if they won't turn it over to him, wouldn't he first at? tempt to steal from his parents and deceive them?" "Exactly." "And where he's not able to, won't he next seize it and use force?" "I suppose so," he said. "And then, you surprising man, if the old man and the old woman hold their ground and fight, would he watch out and be reluctant to do any tyrannic deeds?" 'Tm not," he said, "very hopeful for such a man's parents." "But, in the name of Zeus, Adeimantus, is it your opinion that for the sake of a newly-found lady friend and unnecessary concubine such a man will strike his old friend and necessary mother, or that for the sake of a newly-found and unnecessary boy friend, in the bloom of youth, he will strike his elderly and necessary father who is no longer in the bloom of youth and is the oldest of friends, and that he will enslave his parents to them if he should bring them into the same house?" "Yes, by Zeus," he said, "it is." "How very blessed it seems to be," I said, "to bear a tyrannic son." "Oh, quite," he said. "What then? When what belongs to his father and mother gives out on such a man and there's already quite a swarm of pleasures densely gathered in him, won't he begin by taking hold of the wall3 of someone's house or the cloak of someone who goes out late at night, and next, sweep out some temple? And throughout all this, those opinions he held long ago in childhood about fine and base things, the opinions accounted just,4 are mastered by the opinions newly re? leased from slavery, now acting as love's bodyguard and conquering along with it. These are the opinions that were formerly released as dreams in sleep when, still under laws and a father, there was a dem? ocratic regime in him. But once a tyranny was established by love, what he had rarely been in dreams, he became continuously while awake. He will stick at no terrible murder, or food, or deed. Rather, love lives like a tyrant within him in all anarchy and lawlessness; and, being a monarch, will lead the man whom it controls, as though he were a city, to every kind of daring that will produce wherew:ithaffor it and the noisy crowd around it--one part of which bad company caused to come in from outside; the other part was from within and was set loose and freed by his own bad