guardians is, in my opinion, Glaucon," I said, "something like this, not described precisely, but by way of a model." "That," he said, "is the way it looks to me too." "Isn't it then truly most correct to call these men complete guard? ians? They can guard over enemies from without and friends from within-so that the ones will not wish to do harm and the others will be unable to. The young, whom we were calling guardians up to now, we shall call auxiliaries and helpers of the rulers' convictions." "In my opinion," he said, "that is what they should be called." "Could we," I said, "somehow contrive one of those lies that come into being in case of need, of which we were just now speaking, some one noble65 lie to persuade, in the best case, even the rulers, but if not them, the rest of the city?" "What sort of a thing?" he said. "Nothing new," I said, "but a Phoenician thing,66 which has already happened in many places before, as the poets assert and have caused others to believe, but one that has not happened in our time-and I don't know if it could-one that requires a great deal of persuasion." "How like a man who's hesitant to speak you are," he said. "You'll think my hesitation quite appropriate, too," I said, "when I do speak." "Speak," he said, "and don't be afraid." "I shall speak-and yet, I don't know what I'll use for daring or 413d e 414 a b C d 414 d e 415 a b C d speeches in telling it-and I'll attempt to persuade first the ru]ers and the so]diers, then the rest of the city, that the rearing and education we gave them were like dreams; they on]y thought they were undergoing all that was happening to them, whi1e, in truth, at that time they were under the earth within, being fashioned and reared themselves and their arms and other tools being crafted. When the job had bee completely finished, then the earth, which is their mother, sent them up. And now, as though the land they are in were a mother and nurse, they must p]an for and defend it, if anyone attacks, and they must think of the other citizens as brothers and born of the earth." "It wasn't," he said, "for nothing that you were for so long ashamed to tell the lie." "It was indeed appropriate," I said. "All the same, hear out the rest of the tale. 'All of you in the city are certainly brothers,' we shall say to them in telling the tale, 'but the god, in fashioning those of you who are competent to rule, mixed gold in at their birth; this is why they are most honored; in auxiliaries, silver; and iron and bronze in the farm? ers and the other craftsmen. So, because you're all related, although for the most part you'l1 produce offspring like yourselves, it sometimes hap? pens