on the ground that they make hymns to tyranny.'' "I suppose," he said, "they pardon us, at least all the subtle ones among them." c "And I suppose that, going around to the other cities, gathering SOCRATES/ADEIMANTUS 568 c crowds, and hiring fine, big and persuasive voices, they draw the regimes toward tyrannies and democracies." "Quite so." "And, besides this, they get wages and are honored too, most of all by tyrants, as is to be expected, and, in the second place, by democracy. But the higher they go on the slope of the regimes, the d. more their honor fails, as though it were unable to proceed for want of breath." "Most certainly." "But here we've digressed," I said. "Let's return to the tyrant's camp, that fair, numerous, many-colored thing that is never the same and tell from where its support will come." ' "It's plain," he said, "that if there is sacred money in the city, he'll spend it as long as it lasts, along with the property of the men he has destroyed,31 so that people won't be compelled to bring in such large contributions." d. "And what happens when that source gives out?" "It's plain," he said; "that he and his drinking fellows and com? rades, male and female, will get their support from his father's proper? ty." "I understand," I said. "The people that begot the tyrant will sup? port him and his comrades." "A great necessity will compel it," he said. "But what do you have to say to this?" I said. "What if the people are discontented and say that it is not just for a son in his prime to be supported by his father, but the reverse, the father should be supported 569 a by the son; and that they didn't beget and set him up so that when he had grown great they should be slaves to their own slaves and support him and the slaves along with other flotsam, but so that with him as leader they would be freed from the rich and those who are said to be gentlemen in the city; and they now bid him and his comrades to go away from the city-like a father driving a son along with his trouble? some drinking fellows out of the house?" "By Zeus, how this kind of a people will then know," he said, "the kind b of a beast they have begotten, welcomed, and made great, and that they are the weaker driving out the stronger!" "What are you saying?" I said. "Will the tyrant dare to use force on his father, and if he doesn't obey, strike him?" "Yes," he said, "once he's taken away his father's arms." "You speak of the tyrant as a parricide and a harsh nurse of old age,"32 I said, "and, as it seems, this would at last be self-admitted tyranny and, as the saying goes, the people in fleeing the smoke of enslavement to free men would have