accept the injustice of making wealth one of the titles to rule. Virtue without wealth has no place in Aristotle's best regime; convention must be mixed with nature. Socrates is attempting to satisfy Glaucon's re? quest; he is trying to show that political justice is good in itself, not be? cause it can be a source of other advantages. Perhaps that request can? not be satisfied, at least on the level of Glaucon's original intention. However, strictly political considerations are not sufficient to ac? count for Socrates' procedure; it can be explained ultimately only in the light of the trans-political considerations which emerge later. On political grounds it woold be wise to make the compromises necessary to make the guardians happy. But the concentration on the public and the common, the forgetfulness of the demands of the body, prepares the way for the introduction of philosophy which is the most universal con? cern. It is the concern with the private or particular as such that must be overcome if individuals are to philosophize and cities are to be ruled by philosophy. The guardian who is totally devoted to the common good is the prototype of the philosopher who is devoted to knowing the good. Adeimantus is a secret lover of wealth, as is revealed by his rebellion at the abolition of private property. Therefore Socrates imme? diately turns to an attack on the effects of wealth on the city. This pro? vokes Adeimantus into making a last stand in its favor. He objects that the city will not be rich enough to defend itself. Wars require money, and so some amount of acquisitiveness must be permitted. Perhaps sound domestic policy would discourage the acquisition of wealth, but priority must be given to foreign policy since the city's very ex? istence depends on it. Adeimantus' objection, then, is the same as Machiavelli's: the best regime is a mere dream, for a good city cannot avoid ruin if it does not do the things which will enable it to survive among vicious cities. It is foreign po1icy which makes the devotion to the good life within a city impossible. One must be at least as powerful as one's neighbors and must adopt a way of life such as to make this possible. Poverty, smallness, and unchangingness cannot compete with wealth, greatness, and innovation. The true policy is outward-looking, and cities and men are radically dependent on others for what they must be. Without a response to this objection-which Machiavelli thought to be decisive for the rejection of classical political thought? the very attempt to elaborate a utopia is folly. In his attempt to meet the objection, Socrates formulates a Machiavellian foreign policy in order to preserve the anti-Machi? avellian domestic policy of his city. The city will be too poor to be very attractive as an object of conquest; its tough fighters will make it a dangerous enemy and. it will join its potential attacker in attacking soft, rich cities. Furthermore, in