is to be salutary for the warriors, it is not, according to Socrates, sufficient to change its content, but its form must also be changed. He forces the poetically inclined Adeimantus to give up the greatest charm of poetry-imitation. These are his reasons: the poet can make men believe that they see and hear his characters. This constitutes his real power-he enchants men so that they live the ex? periences he wishes to present. The poet hides himself behind his work, and the audience forgets, for the moment, that the world into which they enter is not the real one. The spectators have the sense of the reality of men and events which are more interesting and more beautiful than any they know in their own lives; This is what makes poetry so peculiarly attractive. The poet's hold on men is such that he can con? ceive a very high opinion of himself and a great sense of superiority over those whom he moves. But he is much less powerful than he thinks he is. Precisely because he must make his audience join in the world he wishes to present to them, he must appeal to its dominant pas? sions. He cannot force the spectators to listen to him or like and enter into the lives of men who are repulsive to them. He must appeal to and flatter the dominant passions of the spectators. Those passions are fear, pity, and contempt. The spectators want to cry or to laugh. If the poet is to please, he must satisfy that demand. He is capable of making men cry or laugh; he can refine the expressions of the passions connected with tears and laughter; he can even, within limits, change the objects which move those passions; but he cannot alter the fact that he thrives on the existence and intensification of those passions. But it is precisely those passions which Socrates says the warriors must try to overcome. In the beautiful and exalted figure of Achilles who revolts against Aga? memnon and grieves over the loss of his friends, they could find justification for their own temptations and fears. Men believe that in Achilles they see the reality of human perfection whereas he is only a distillation of themselves. Moreover, poetry seems to require diversity of character and ac? tion and the intensity of passion; unhappy, suffering men or ludicrous ones are its favorite subjects. Virtuous men tend to be alike and are less likely to give way to the actions which poetry best imitates; and cer? tainly moderation is not a virtue favored by poets. There is a certain tendency in poetry to make vice and even crime interesting because of the attractiveness of the men -drawn to them. In other words, virtue is not necessarfly the best choice of subject for a man who wants to write a beautiful epic or drama; the poet must subordinate his love of virtue to the requirements of his art. Finally, and most