that." "There's need then," I said, "for a subtler exercise for these com? batants in war, since they must be sleepless like hounds, see and hear as sharply as possible, and in their campaigns undergo many changes of water, food, the sun's heat, and winds without being too highly tuned b for steadiness in health." "It looks like it to me." "Would the best gymnastic be a kin of the simple music we were describing a little while ago?" "How do you mean?" "A simple and decent gymnastic, of course, especially in matters of war." "How would it be?" "From Homer too," I said, "one could learn things very much of this sort. For you know that, during the campaign, at the feasts of the heroes, he doesn't feast them on fish-and that, although they are by the sea at the Hellespont-nor on boiled meats but only roasted, which c would be especially easy for soldiers to come by; for, so to speak, everywhere it's easier to come by the use of fire alone than to carry pots around." "Quite so." "Nor does Homer, I believe, ever make mention of sweets. Don't even the other athletes know that if a body is going to be in good shape it must keep away from everything of the sort?" "Yes," he said, "and they are right in knowing it aud keeping away." "My friend, you don't seem to recommend a Syracusan table and d Sicilian refinement at cooking, if you think this is right." "No, I think not." "Then you also blame a Corinthian girl's being the mistress of men who are going to have good bodies." "That's entirely certain." "And the reputed joys of Attic cakes?" "Necessarily." 404d e 405a b C d e 406a "In likening such food and such a way of life as a whole to melo? dies and songs written in the panharmonic mode and with all rhythms, we would make a correct likeness, I suppose." "Of course." "Just as refinement there gave birth to licentiousness, does it give birth to illness here? And just as simplicity in music produced modera? tion in souls, does it in gymnastic produce health in bodies?" "That's very true," he said. "When licentiousness and illness multiply in a city, aren't many courts and hospitals opened, and aren't the arts of the law court and medicine full of pride when even many free men take them very seriously?" "How could it tum out differently?" "Will you be able to produce a'greater sign of a bad and base education in a city than its needing eminent doctors and judges not only for the common folk and the manual artisans but also for those who pretend to have been reared in a free fashion? Or doesn't it seem base, and a great sign of lack of education, to be compelled? because of a shortage at home-to use a justice imported from others who are thus masters and umpires?" "Certainly," he said, "basest of all."