of daring and moderation. In the account of the cave given here, a man is liberated from his bonds not by his own efforts but by a teacher who compels him to tum to the light. The actual mode of this turning is represented in the action of the Republic. Old Cephalus has opinions about justice; in the investigation of justice, 'one does not begin by.trying to look at justice, or by constructing definitions, but by examining these opinions about it. Cephalus holds two contradictory opinions about justice, but both seem necessary for his understanding of justice. One is thus forced to seek for another and more adequate opinion which can comprehend the phenomena covered by the contradictory opinions. The thoughtful observer recognizes that the opinions of the men in the cave are self? contradictory and thus meaningless as they stand. But their very con? tradiction points beyond them to more intelligible opinions and to ob? jects which do not admit of such ambiguity. The many contradictory opinions are solicited by the one, comprehensive, opinion. Dialectic, beginning from the commonly held opinions, will lead to an ultimate [ 406 ] agreement. It is this activity which can guide us to the discovery of the natural objects, and it implies that we begin from the phenomena as we see them, taking them seriously in an effort to clarify them. It is only by way of our imprisonment that a liberation can be effected; and our speech about things, if properly examined, is the reflection of the light in the cave. The liberation, once effected, results in great happiness; the soul carrie on its proper activity with its proper objects. And, as a result, the freed man has _a great contempt for the cave, its shadows and its inhabitants. He wants always to live out in the light; the others do not know they are slaves, so they are content; but he knows it and cannot bear to live among them. Nothing in the city contributes to his specific pleasures, and he wants nothing from it; he is not, as are all others, a potential exploiter of the city. At last the problem of finding disin? terested rulers is solved. But it also becomes clear that the philosophers do not want to be rulers and that they must be compelled. Compulsion is necessary since rhetoric could not deceive philosophers. Now the tables are turned. Previously it appeared that the philosophers are anx? ious to rule and must persuade a recalcitrant populace. In the investiga? tion of the philosophic nature it has by accident, as it were, emerged that philosophers want nothing from the city and that their con? templative activity is perfectly engrossing, leaving neither time nor in? terest for ruling. So, if philosophers are to rule, it must be the city that forces them to do so; and it is in the philosophers' interest to keep the knowledge of their kingly skills from the people. It is a perfect circle. The