be one in which good would be done to friends. This solution, however, must wait until later, for Polemarchus really has no notion of what philosophy is, and its discovery is impossible on this level of thought. The poets and the laws tell Polemarchus the proper place of each thing, and this is why he sees no difficulty in doing good to friends. His is a prephilosophic world, and its authorities must be completely dis? credited before philosophy can even be sought. After thoroughly confusing Polemarchus about the way to do good to friends and harm to enemies, Socrates turns to the question of what- a friend is. He and Polemarchus agree that men consider as friends those they believe to be good. The problem is whether they must really be good men or only seem to be so in order to be friends. Polemarchus answers sensibly that the reality is not so important but rather what is thought about it. Almost all men have friends, and many are not able to judge the true character of those they call friends. Friendship would be very rare if both parties had to be good men and know it. But from this simple admission follows a consequence which is intolerable to Polemarchus: to the extent that the just man erred about the goodness of men, he would benefit bad men and harm good ones and hence be unjust. A simple reformulation solves the problem: friends are properly those who appear to be good and are. But this little change, if it were taken seriously, would have the profoundest of effects on Polemarchus' life. His first admission that his friends were those who seemed to him good reflected the way he really thinks. It is an easygoing outlook, typical of most men. He knows who friends are. Our friends are those around us, and the insistence that they must be good is a secondary consideration, one that has an abstract ring to it. This condition is admitted in speech but has little ef? fect in deed. And this means that men who loyally serve their friends are constantly and thoughtlessly doing injustice. This consequence can? not be avoided simply by making more effort, for Polemarchus' view is not merely a result of his laziness but a product of his attachment to family and city. He makes the primitive identification of the good with his own. He is like his father who wanted Socrates as a friend and in- vited him to become a member of the family. Men who are outsiders can become friends only by becoming "naturaHzed" members of the family; blood ties are what count. Even the loyalty to the city is under- . stood as an extension of the family. This tendency to see the good in one's own and to devote oneself to it is one of the most powerful urges of human nature and the source of great devotion and energy. Once the distinction between what is good