must be observed that the eros attacked is the lust for other bodies, and that this is done in the name of both politics and philosophy. Politics seems to be hostile to any form of ex? treme eroticism, but what about philosophy? It is clear in Books VI and VII that love of wisdom is a form of eros, and that the hosti1ity to eros is limited to the kind which precludes the development of philosophic eras. The political and philosophic critiques of eros are therefore not in total harmony. If the radically incomplete discussion of the soul in the Republic were to be made comprehensive, it would have to be enlarged to provide an adequate account of eras. (For example, in Book IX it becomes clear that the spirited and rational parts of the soul have their specific desires; desire is not limited to the lowest part which has been called the desiring part.) The present interpretation of eros does serve the purpose of moderating Glaucon's passion, which is both anti-political and anti-philosophic. But the obvious incompleteness of this understanding of eros leads to an awareness of a hidden kinship be- tween the tyrant and the philosopher. There are certain kinds of things (for example, incest) which a gentleman is not even willing to think about, let alone do. Sometimes against his will such things find expression in his dreams. The tyrant is willing both to think about them and to do them when wide awake. The philosopher, as we have seen in the Repub? lic, is at least willing to think about them, and they hold none of the pe? culiar horror for him that they do for the gentleman. This is because both tyrant and philosopher depreciate law or convention -(nomos) in their quest for nature (physis). Eros is nature's demonic voice. The tyrant and the philosopher are united in their sense of their radical incompleteness and their longing for wholeness, in their passion and in their singlemind? edness. They are the truly dedicated men. The potential tyrant, if saved from corruption, may also very well be the potential philosopher. The young man drawn to tyranny, like the philosopher, is allowed to flourish only in the democracy. Socrates, by curing Glaucon of his lust for tyrannic pleasures, can indulge his own lust for beautiful souls while at the same time acting the part of the good citizen who defends his city's regime. The democracy satisfies everything: it lets Socrates be a philosopher, at least until he is seventy; it provides him with students by allowing the emergence of unnecessary and unlawful desires; and by permitting him to convert those possessed by these desires to philosophy, it gives him the opportunity to show that he loves his country. Socrates attempts to prove to Glaucon that the tyrant is the unhappiest of men. His argument consists of two parts. In the first place, the tyrant cannot fulfill his desires; he must always continue his longing, become hated, and do