become a supreme interpreter of Aristotle without knowing Greek. Such a translation is intended to be useful to the serious student, the one who wishes and is able to arrive at his own understanding of the work. He must be emancipated from the tyranny of the translator, given the means of transcending the limitations of the translator's inter? pretation, enabled to discover the subtleties of the elusive original. The only way to provide the reader with this independence is by a slavish, even if sometimes cumbersome, literalness-insofar as possible always using the same English equivalent for the same Greek word. Thus the little difficulties which add up to major discoveries become evident to, or at least are not hidden from, the careful student. The translator should conceive of himself as a medium between a master whose depths he has not plumbed and an audience of potential students of that master who may be much better endowed than is the translator. His greatest vice is to believe he has adequately grasped the teaching of his author. It is least of all his function to render the work palatable to those who do not wish, or are unable, to expend the effort requisite to the study of difficult texts. Nor should he try to make an ancient mode of thought sound "contemporary." Such translations become less useful as more attention is paid to the text. At the very least, one can say that a literal translation is a necessary supplement to more felicitous rendi? tions which deviate widely from their original. The difference from age to age in the notions of the translator's re? sponsibility is in itself a chapter of intellectual history. Certainly the popularization of the classics is one part of that chapter. But there seem to be two major causes for the current distaste for literal transla? tions-one rooted in the historical science of our time, the other rooted in a specific, and I believe erroneous, view of the character of Platonic books. The modern historical consciousness has engendered a general scepticism about the truth of all "world views," except for that one of which it is itself a product. There seems to be an opinion that the thought of the past is immediately accessible to us, that, although we may not accept it, we at least understand it. We apply the tools of our science to the past without reflecting that those tools are also historical? ly limited. We do not sufficiently realize thay{he only true historical ob? jectivity is to understand the ancient authors as they understood them? selves/and we are loath to assume that perhaps they may be able to criticize 011r framework and our methodsffle should, rather, try to see our historical science in the perspective of their teachings rather than the other way around.JMost of a11, we must accept, at least tentative? ly, the claim of the older thinkers that the truth is potentially attainable by the efforts of unaided human reason at all