mean by images first shadows, then appearances produced in water and in all close-grained, smooth, bright things, and everything of the sort, if you understand." "I do understand." "Then in the other segment put that of which this first is the likeness-the animals around us, and everything that grows, and the whole class of artifacts." "I put them there," he said. "And would you also be willing," I said, "to say that with respect to truth or lack of it, as the opinable is distinguished from the know? able, so the likeness is distinguished from that of which it is the like? ness?" "I would indeed," he said. "Now, in its turn, consider also how the intelligible section should be cut." "How?" "Like this: in one part of it a soul, using as images the things that were previously imitated, is compelled to investigate on the basis of hypotheses and makes its way not to a beginning but to an end; while in the other part it makes its way to a beginning36 that is free from hypotheses;37 starting out from hypothesis and without the images used in the other part, by means of forms themselves it makes its in? quiry through them." "I don't," he said, "sufficiently understand what you mean here." "Let's try again," I said. "You'll understand more easily after this introduction. I suppose you know that the men who work in geometry, calculation, and the like treat as known the odd and the even, the figures, three forms of angles, and other things akin to these in each kind of inquiry. These things they make hypotheses and don't think it worthwhile to give any further account of them to themselves or others, Book VI I 509c-511d SOCRATES/GLAUCON as though they were clear to all. Beginning from them, they go ahead with their exposition of what remains and end consistently at the object toward which their investigation was directed." "Most certainly, I know that," he said. "Don't you also know that they use visible forms besides and make their arguments about them, not thinking about them but about those others that they are like? They make the arguments for the sake of the square itself and the diagonal itself, not for the sake of the diagonal they draw, and likewise with the rest. These things themselves that they mold and draw, of which there are shadows and images in water, they now use as images, seeking to see those things themselves, that one can see in no other way than with thought." "What you say is true," he said. "Wel( then, this is the form I said was intelligible. However, a soul in investigating it is compelled to use hypotheses, and does not go to a beginning because it is unable to step out above the hypotheses. And it uses as images those very things of which images are made by the things below, and in comparison with which they are opined to be clear and are