city, except insofar as the one is weaker and the other stronger." "It looks like it." "Such women, therefor , must also be chosen to live and guard with such men, since they are competent and akin to the men in their nature." "Certainly." "And mustn't the same practices be assigned to the same natures?" "The same." "Then we have come around full circle to where we were before and agree that it's not against nature to assigp music and gymnastic to the women guardians." "That's entirely certain." "Then we weren't giving laws. that are impossible or like prayers, since the law we were setting down is according to nature. Rather, the way things are nowadays proves to be, as it seems, against nature." "So it seems." "Weren't we considering whether what we say is possible and best?" "Yes, we were." "And that it is possible, then, is agreed?" "Yes.:,:, "But next it must be agreed that it is best?" "Plainly." "In making a woman fit for guarding, one education won't pro? duce men for us and another women, will it, especially since it is 456 b C dealing with the same nature?" d "No, there will be no other." "What's your opinion about this?" "What?" "Conceiving for yourself that one man is better and another worse? Or do you believe them all to be alike?" "Not at all." "In the city we were founding, which do you think will turn out to be better men for us-the guardians who get the education we have described or the shoemakers, educated in shoemaking?" "What you ask is ridiculous," he said. "I understand," I said. "And what about this? Aren't they the best among the citizens?" "By far." "And what about this? Won't these women be the best of the women?" "That, too, by far," he said. "Is there anything better for a city than the coming to be in it of the best possible women and men?" "There is not." "And music and gymnastic, brought to bear as we have described, will accomplish this?" "Of course." "The law we were setting down is therefore not only possible but also best for a city." "So it is." "Then the women guardians must strip, since they'll clothe them? selves in virtue instead of robes, and they must take common part in war and the rest of the city's guarding, and must not do other things. e 457 a 457 a b C d e 458 a But lighter pai:ts of these tasks must be given to the women than t-he men because of the weakness of the class. And the man who laughs at naked women practicing gymnastic for the sake of the best, 'plucks from his wisdom an unripe fruit for ridicule'15 and doesn't know-as it seems-at what he laughs or what he does. For this is surely the fairest thing that is said and will be said-the beneficial is fair and the harmful ugly." "That's entirely certain." "May we then assert