get around its necessity. If it is so unpleasant, why be just? As he says, in these conditions only a man whose divine nature renders injustice distasteful to him, or one who has knowledge, would resist the oppor? tunity to do injustice. In order to be convincing to both Glaucon and Adeimantus, Socrates must show that justice satisfies even the man who loses everything for it, and that his happiness is akin to the sensations of the man immersed in the pleasures of the senses. At the conclusion of the unjust arguments of Glaucon and Adei? mantus, Socrates professe his incapacity to succeed at a task of the magnitude of the one imposed on him. But he recognizes that piety for? bids him to abandon justice under attack. Under pressure from the en? tire group he agrees to defend justice. However, he does not respond directly to the questions of his young companions. Rather than criticize their arguments or present a counter argument of his own, he invites them to share an adventure with him. They are to join together in the greatest and most revealing of political acts, the founding of a city. Soc? rates thus engages their desire for glory; although they are not indif? ferent to the desires which moved the other speakers, they, and par? ticularly Glaucon, are animated by a different passion: it is not money that they love so much, but honor. Thrasymachus had offered them tyranny, the highest position in the city. Socrates inflames their imagination with even grander dreams. The founders of a city are more powe1ful and more revered than are its tyrants. All succeeding genera? tions honor them; they have none of the obloquy attached to the tyrant. Socrates outdoes Thrasymachus and offers more attractive food for reflection. Thrasymachus, with his tr ining in rhetoric, a]so offers the means of attaining the object he proposes, and Socrates has no substitute for that. But the very attractiveness of 'the goal proposed causes them to neglect its impracticality. Socrates succeeds with them because he begins by giving them at least part of what they want. Soc? rates takes Glaucon and Adeimantus to the limits of politics, and it is at the limits that one can see both the nature and the problems oi politics. vVe have ]earned that justice is a political question: can there be a regime whose laws are such as to serve the common good while allowing each of its members to reach his natural perfection? If not, life will be eternally torn between duty to the city and duty to oneself. In pretending that they are founders, Glaucon and Adeirnantus at once discover that they must care for justice. In this case at least, the satisfaction of their desires is identical with the conc rn for justice. Socrates, momentarily at least, accepts Glaucon's view that things can be understood by their origins. They are about to watch justice coming into being in order to see if Glaucon's account