they be?" he said. "All right, Thrasymachus. Do you say that one man is musical and that another is unmusical?" "I do." "Which is prudent and which thoughtless?" "Surely the musical man is prudent and the unmusical man thoughtless." "Then, in the things in which he is prudent, is he also good, and in those in which he is thoughtless, bad?" "Yes.:n 345. a "And what about a medical man? Is it not the same with him?" "It is the same." "Then, you best of men, is any musical man who is tuning a lyre in your opinion willing to get the better of another musical man in tightening and relaxing the strings, or does he claim he deserves more?" "Not in my opinion." "But the better of the unmusical man?" "Necessarily," he said. "And what about a medical man? On questions of food and drink, would he want to get the better of a medical man or a medical ac? tion?" "Surely not." "But the better of what is not medical?" "Now, for every kind of knowledge and lack of knowledge, see if in your opinion any man at all who knows chooses voluntarily to say or do more than another man who knows, and not the same as the man who is like himself in the same action." b "Perhaps," he said, "it is necessarily so." "And what about the ignorant man? Would he not get the better of both the man who knows and the man who does not?" "Perhaps." "The man who knows is wise?" "I say so." "And the wise man is good?" "I say so." "Then the man who is both good and wise will not want to get the better of the like, but of the unlike and opposite?" "It seems so," he said. "But the bad and unlearned will want to get the better of both the like and the opposite?" "It looks like it." "Then, Thrasymachus," I said, "does our unjust man get the bet? ter of both like and unlike? Weren't you saying that?" "I was," he said. "And the just man will not get the better of like but of unlike?" 350b C "Then," I said, "the just man is like the wise and good, but the unjust man like the bad and unlearned." 'Tm afraid so." "But we were also agreed that each is such as the one he is like." "We were." "Then the just man has revealed himself to us as good and wise, and the unjust man unlearned and bad." Now, Thrasymachus did not agree to all of this so easily as I tell it now, but he dragged his feet and resisted, and he produced a wonderful c quantity of sweat, for it was summer. And then I saw what I had not yet seen before-Thrasymachus blushing. At all events, when we had ..:ome to complete agreement about justice being virtue and wisdom, and injustice both vice and lack of learning, I said, "All