of the gifts and honors. So he must be stripped of everything except justice, and his situation must be made the opposite of the first man's. Doing no injustice, let him have the greatest reputa? tion for injustice, so that his justice may be put to the test to see if it is softened by bad reputation and its consequences. Let him go un? changed till death, seeming throughout life to be unjust although he is just, so that when each has come to the extreme-the one of justice, the other of injustice-they can be judged as to which of the two is hap? pier." "My, my," I said, "my dear Glaucon, how vigorously you polish up each of the two men-just like a statue-for their judgment." "As much as I can," he said. "With two such men it's no longer hard, I suppose, to complete the speech by a description of the kind of life that awaits each. It must be told, then. And if it's somewhat rustically told, don't suppose that it is I who speak, Socrates, but rather those who praise injustice ahead of justice. They'll say that the just man who has such a disposition will be whipped; he'll be racked; he'll be bound; he'll have both his eyes burned out; and, at the end, when he has undergone every sort of evil, he'll be crucified and know that one shouldn't wish to be, but to seem to be, just. After all, Aeschylus' say? ing applies far more correctly to the unjust man. For really, they will say, it is the unjust man, because he pursues a thing dependent on truth and does not live in the light of opinion, who does not wish to seem un? just but to be unjust, Reaping a deep furrow in his mind From which trusty plans bear fruit.6 First, he-rules in the city because he seems to be just. Then he takes in marriage from whatever station he wants and gives in marriage to whomever he wants; he contracts and has partnerships with whomever he wants, and, besides benefiting himself in all this, he gains because he has no qualms about doing injustice. So then, when he enters contests, both private and public, he wins and gets the better of his enemies. In getting the better, he is wealthy and does good to friends and harm to 361 l C d 362c; b ( 362 C d e 363 a b C enemies. To the gods he makes sacrifices and sets up votive offerings, adequate and magnificent, and cares for the gods and those human beings he wants to care for far better than the just man. So, in a1l likelihood, it is also more appropriate for him to be dearer to the gods than is the just man. Thus, they say, Socrates, with gods and with hu? mans, a better life is provided for the unjust man than for the just man." When Glaucon had said this, I