that they would do this only as a study in pa? thology, keeping the healthy model constantly before their eyes. Ac? tually, the healthy city is forgotten and the good city is constituted by a reform of the feverish city rather than by a return to the healthy one. No serious attempt is even made to look for ju tice in the healthy city. The new city founded by Glaucon's desire begins with an act of in? justice. Since luxury creates scarcity, land must be taken from others. Not everyone can have a city which is sufficient to support a life of satisfaction. Hence, the city proper is formed, that is, the band of brothers who have enemies, who must make war and be warriors. It would appear from this presentation that war is requisite to the emergence of humanity; as the city of sows was gentle and reflected a fundamental harmony among men, so the city of warriors is harsh and reflects a fundamental conflict among men. Paradoxically this is the first human city. It cannot claim that it does not harm other men; its justification can only be in the quality of life it provides for its citizens. Here there emerges a new class of men devoted to the art of war, and in their souls emerges a new principle, spiritedness. The wauiors must be men who like to fight, who are capable of anger, who rush to the defense of their city and of justice. Spiritedness is a difficult motive to understand, and its character can only be seen by contrasting it with desire. Desires are directed to the satisfaction of a need: they express an incompleteness and yearn for completeness. Hunger, thirst, sexual desire, etc., are all immediately related to a goal and their meaning is simple. The goal of spiritedness is much harder to discern. Its simplest manifestation is anger, and it is not immediately manifest what needs are fulfilled by anger. Spiritedness seems characterized more by the fact that it overcomes desire than by ariy positive goal of its own. Moreover, the desires related to the body-which are the only ones that have ap? peared thus far-all have a self-preservative function, whereas spir? itedness, on the contrary, is characterized by an indifference to life. It may indeed aid in the preservation oflife, but it can just as well place honor above life. The city may exist for the sake of life, but it needs men who are willing to die for it. At first sight, the warriors look like the practitioners of just another art, to be set alongside the arts of shoemaking and farming, but they are really the first ruling class and introduce the first principle of hierarchy into the city. Similarly, spiritedness at first sight seems to be just another quality of soul, like the qualities which made a man a farm? er or a blacksmith, but it really represents a new part of the soul, one which will rule the