on the basis of the number of its length, be a plane?''10 "Entirely so." "But then it becomes clear how great the distance of separation is on the basis of the square and the cube." "It's clear," he said, "to the man skilled in calculation." "Then if one turns it around and says how far the king is removed e from the tyrant in truth of pleasure, he will find at the end of the mul? tiplication that he lives 729 times more pleasantly, while the tyrant lives more disagreeably by the same distance." "You've poured forth," he said, "a prodigious calculation of the 588 a difference between the two men-the just and the unjust-in pleasure and pain." "And yet the number is true," I said, "and appropriate to lives too, if days and nights and months and years are appropriate to them."11 "But, of course, they are appropriate," he said. "Then if the good and just man's ,,ictory in pleasure over the bad and unjust man is so great, won't his victory in grace, beauty, and vir? tue of life be greater to a prodigious degree?" "To a prodigious degree, indeed, by Zeus," he said. b "All right, then," I said. "Since we are at this point in the argu- ment, let's take up again the first things said, those thanks to which we have come here. It was, I believe, said that doing injustice is profitable for the man who is perfectly unjust but has the reputation of being just. 588 j Or isn't that the way it was said?" "Yes, it was." "Now then," I said, "let's discuss with him, since we have agreed about the respectiv_e powers of doing injustice and doing just things." "How?" he said. "By molding an image of the soul in speech so that the man who says these things will see just what he has been saying." "What sort of image?" he said. "One of those natures such as the tales say used to come into be? ing in olden times-the Chimrera, Scylla, Cerberus, and certain others, a throng of them, which are said to have been many ideas grown naturally together in one."12 "Yes," he said, "they do tell of such things." "Well then, mold a single idea for a many-colored, many-headed beast that has a ring of heads of tame and savage beasts and can change them and make all of them grow from itself." "That's a job for a clever molder," he said. "But, nevertheless, since speech is more easily molded than wax and the like, consider it as molded." "Now, then, mold another single idea for a lion, and a single one for a human being. Let the first be by far the greatest, and the second, second in size." "That's easier," he said, "and the molding is done." "Well, then, join them-they are three-in one, so that in some way they grow naturally together with each other." "They are joined," he said. "Then mold about them