laws are just and punishes those who break them. Anger seems a pro er reaction to lawbreake who are thought to harm others for eir selfish ends. But Thrasymachus has stripped away the-vells that covered the selfishness of the rulers and their laws. Those laws themselves serve the private interest of a part of the city and do harm to the rest of it. Laws are not directed to the common good. And yet the city will continue to put lawbreakers to death as unjust men and enemies of the common good. The anger awakened in men by the sight of indifference or hostility to law is a powerful force in protecting the law and hence the city,. but it can also be the enemy of justice and is certainly the greatest enemy of philosophy. Thrasymachus, whose art gives speech to the passions of the city, is its agent in condemning Soc? rates, and his action in the service of this passion imitates the city's ac? tion. The immediate cause of Thrasymachus' ire is the end of Socrates' argument with Polemarchus. Based on the tacit premise that justice is good, the argument led to the conclusion that justice is an art that does good to those to whom it ministers. The just man profits both others and himself. This means that there is a common good; the community is bound together by justice, and no one sacrifices his own personal ad? vantage to it. On the contrary,, if-to use Socrates' hyperbolic ex? pression-justice is human virtue, each gains his fulfillment in the prosperity of the whole. A just man never harms 'anyone. Thrasyma? chus, referring to his knowledge of the world and the actual practice of the cities, treats this view as the result of a culpable innocence, an in? nocence destructive to the happiness of those who are taken in by it. Practically speaking, as Cephalus' example shows, justice is law-abid? ingness. That is certainly what the city says it is; and, even if there is a natural justice, it must be embodied in a code of politic l law in or? der to have a real effect. The city always presents its laws as a con? stitutive part of itself, like the territory and the populace. But, in fact, those laws can vary as the territory and the populace cannot; they are a function of the regime, of the kind of men who govern the city. When the poor, or the rich, or the old families, or a tyrant take over the rule in a city, its laws change correspondingly. The sovereign makes the [ 327] laws, and those laws always happen to reflect its interests. Oligarchies make laws which favor and protect oligarchy; democracy makes laws which favor and protect democracy, etc. The regime is the absolute beginning point; there is nothing beyond it. To understand the kind of justice practiced in any city one must look to the regime. The laws have their source in the