d e 528a b C 528 C d e 529 a b C give of the way it is useful, nevertheless in the face of all this it grows per force, due to its charm. So it wouldn't be at all surprising if it came to light." "Yes, indeed," he said, "it is exceptionally charming. But tell me more clearly what you meant just now; you presumably set geometry down as that which treats of the plane." "Yes," I said. "Then," he said, "at first you set down astronomy after geometry, but later you withdrew." "My haste to go through everything quickly is the cause of my being slowed down," I said. "The investigation of the dimension with depth was next in order, but, due to the ridiculous state of the search for it, I skipped over it after geometry and said astronomy, which treats the motion of what has depth." "What you say is right," he said. "Well, then," I said, "as the fourth study lef s set down astron? omy, assuming that the study that is now being left aside will be present if a city pursues it." "Thaf s likely," he said. "And on the basis of the reproach you just made me for my vulgar praise of astronomy, Socrates, now I shall praise it in the way that you approach it. In my opinion ifs plain to everyone that astronomy compels the soul to see whaf s above and leads it there away from the things here." "Perhaps ifs plain to everyone except me," I said. "In my opinion, thaf s not the way it is." "Then how is it?" he said. "As it is taken up now by those who lead men up to philosophy, it has quite an effect in causing the soul to look downward." "How do you mean?" he said. "In my opinion," I said, "ifs no ignoble conception you have for yourself of what the study of the things above is. Even if a man were to learn something by tilting his head back and looking at decorations on a ceiling, you would probably believe he contemplates with his intellect and not his eyes. Perhaps your belief is a fine one and mine innocent. I, for my part, am unable to hold that any study makes a soul look up? ward other than the one that concerns what is and is invisible. And if a man, gaping up17, or squinting down, attempts to learn something of sensible things, I would deny that he ever learns-for there is no knowledge of such things-or that his soul looks up, rather than down, even if he learns while floating on his back on land or sea." "I am paying the just penalty," he said. "You are right in re? proaching me. But just what did you mean when you said that astronomy must be studied in a way contrary to the one in which they now study it, if ifs going to be studied