character. Or isn't this the life of such a man?" "It certainly is," he said. "And if," I said, "there are few such men in a city and the rest of the multitude is behaving moderately, they emigrate and serve as bodyguards to some other tyrant or as auxiliaries for wages, if there is war somewhere. And if they come to be in a period of peace and quiet, then they remain there in the city and do many small evil deeds." "What kind of deeds do you mean?" "Oh, they steal, break into houses, cut purses, go off with people's clothes, rob temples, and lead men into slavery; at times they are syco? phants, if they are able to speak, and they bear false witness and take bribes." 571. b C d e 571. a b 575 C d e 576 a b "These are small evils you speak of," he said, "if such men are few." "That's because small things," I said, "are small compared to big ones; and for the badness and wretchedness of a city all of these things together surely don't, as the saying goes, come within striking distance of a tyrant. But when such men and the others who follow them be? come many in a city, and they become aware of their own multitude, it is then that they, together with the folly of the people, generate the tyrant, that one among them who in particular has the biggest and most extreme tyrant within his own soul." "Fitting," he said. "For he would be the most tyrannic." "That's if they submit willingly. But if the city doesn't offer itself just as he then punished his mother and father, so now he will, if h; can, punish the fatherland, bringing in new comrades; and his way of keeping and cherishing his dear old motherland-as the Cretans say-and fatherland will be to enslave them to these men. And this must surely be the end toward which such a man's desire is direct? ed." "That's exactly it;" he said. "When these men are in private life, before they rule, aren't they like this: in the first place, as to their company, either they have in? tercourse with their flatterers, who are ready to serve them in every? thing, or, if they have need of anything from anyone, they themselves cringe and dare to assume any posture, acting as though they belonged to him, but when they have succeeded they become quite alien." "Very much so," he said. "Therefore, they live their whole life without ever being friends of anyone, always one man's master or another's slave. The tyrannic na? ture never has a taste of freedom or true friendship." "Most certainly." "Wouldn't we be right in calling such men faithless?" "Of course." "And, further, could we call them as unjust as they can be, if our previous agreement about what justice is was right?" "But surely it was right," he said. "Well, then," I said, "let's