know what man is and his relation to the other beings. In asserting that philosophers should rule, Socrates formulates a view of the relation between wisdom and power opposed to that of the Enlightenment. Beginning from the common assumption that knowledge of the ends of man and civil society is necessary to civil so? ciety, or that wisdom should rule, the two teachings differ as to whether the rule of wisdom requires that the wise rule. The thinkers of the Enlightenment teach that wisdom can rule without philosophers having to take political power; that is, they teach that the dissemination of knowledge will inevitably lead to the establishment of good regimes. Socrates teaches that wisdom and political power are distinct. Their coming together can only be due to the coincidence that a man who is wise happens also to be a ruler, thus uniting the two things; nothing in their two natures leads the one to the other. Political power serves the passions or desires of the members of a city, and a multitude cannot philosophize. It may use the results of science or philosophy, but it will use them to its own ends and will thereby distort them. Moreover, the wise man by himself is more of a threat to a regime than a helper. In? tellectual progress is not the same as political progress, and, because there is not a simple harmony between the works of the mind and the works of the city, the philosopher without power must remain in an uneasy relationship with the city and its beliefs. Enlightenment en? dangers philosophy because it tempts philosophers to sacrifice their quest for the truth in favor of attempting to edify the public; in an "enlightened" world, philosophy risks being made a tool of unwise and even tyrannical regimes, thus giving those regimes the color of reason and losing its function as the standard for criticism of them. Enlighten? ment also endangers the city by publicly calling into question its untrue but essential beliefs. If philosophers cannot rule, philosophy must be disproportionate to the city. This means that its truths must remain fundamentally private, and that the philosopher, for his own good and that of the city, must hide himself. He must adapt his pub1ic teachings to his particular situation while keeping his thought free of its influence. The philosopher's public speech must be guided by prudence rather than love of the truth; his philosophic activity seems essentially private. Philosopher-kings are, therefore, truly a paradox. The formula? tion points up the salutary effect of philosophy in a city and the necessity of the city for philosophy, hence justifying each to the other; but the high degree of improbability of actualization of the coincidence of philosophers and kings also points up the enduring tension between philosophy and the city. The city cannot do without philosophy, but it also cannot quite tolerate philosophy. Socrates expects a spirited attack on his position by his oppo? nents, so he must prepare his