said. "Don't- you too believe that human beings are un? willingly deprived of good things and willingly of bad ones? Or isn't being deceived about the truth bad, and to have the truth good? Or isn't it your opinion that to opine the things that are, is to have the truth?" "What you say is correct," he said, "and in my opinion men are unwillingly deprived of true opinion." "Don't they suffer this by being robbed, bewitched by wizards, or forced?" "Now I don't understand again," he said. 'Tm afraid I am speaking in the tragic way," I said. "By the robbed I mean those who are persuaded to change and those who forget, because in the one case, time, in the other, speech, takes away their opinions unawares. Now you surely understand?" "Yes >:) "And, then, by the forced I mean those whom some grief or pain causes to change their opinions." "I understand that too," he said, "and what you say is correct." b. "And, further, the bewitched you too, I suppose, would say are those who change their opinions either because they are charmed by pleasure or terrified by some fear." "Yes," he said, "that's because everything that deceives seems to bewitch." "Now then, as I said a while ago, we must look for some men who are the best guardians of their conviction that they must do what on each occasion seems best for the city. So we must watch them straight from childhood by setting them at tasks in which a man would most likely forget and be deceived out of such a conviction. And the man who has a memory and is hard to deceive must be chosen, and the one b. who's not must be rejected, mustn't he?" ''Yes." "And again, they must be set to labors, pains, and contests in which these same things must be watched." "Correct," he said. "Then," I said, "we must also make them a competition for the third form, wizardry, and we must look on. Just as they lead colts to noises and confusions and observe if they're fearful, so these men when they are young must be brought to terrors and then cast in tum into pleasures, testing them far more than gold in fire. If a man appears hard to bewitch and graceful in everything, a good guardian of himself and the music he was learning, proving himself to possess rhythm and harmony on all these occasions-such a man would certainly be most useful to himself and the city. And the one who on each occasion, among the children and youths and among the men, is tested and comes through u tainted, must be appointed ruler of the city and guardian; and he must be given honors, both while Jiving and when dead, and must be allotted the greatest prizes in burial and the other memorials. And the man who's not of this sort must be rejected. The selection and appointment of the rulers and