the other aspirants to the office, and then he proceeds to found a political regime in which philosophers will rule. (328b-331d) Having made their social contract, the members of the group go to Polemarchus' house where they find his father, Ceph? alus, who dominates the scene, and who does so precisely because he is the father. Age is his title to rule, as it is in almost all regimes governed by ancestral custom. Age is a practical substitute for wisdom because, unlike wisdom, it is politically recognizable and easily defined. It is more feasible to teach force to respect age than to teach it to respect wisdom. The reverence for age, and hence antiquity, is one of the strongest ties which can bind a civil society together. But in or? der to carry on a frank discussion about justice, this reverence must be overcome, and the philosopher must take the place of the father at the center of the circle. Socrates must induce Cephalus to leave the scene, because Cephalus is beyond reason, and it would be impious to dispute him. Once authority has been banished, Socrates and his companions can begin a critical examination of the ancestral code, of the conven- tional view of justice. This is the burden of the rest of Book I. All tradi? tional opinions are discredited; and unaided reason, free of limiting prejudices, can begin the search for an understanding of justice which is not merely opinion. This criticism is a destructive activity in the name of liberation. It is a perilous undertaking for men who must re? main members of civil society and could not properly take place under the eyes of Cephalus. He stands for those restraints on body and soul which are essential to the preservation of the city. There are certain un? comfortable issues, the raising of which usually indicates an inclination to vice on the part of those who do so. The practice of posing the ex? treme questions is a bad one, for one of its necessary consequences is corruption of the habits of the virtues. The only justification for ques- tioning the old way would be that as a result a new, superior, way which Cephalus does not know of might emerge. The ancestral is by its nature silent abo t its own foundations; it is an imposing presence that awes those who might be tempted to look too .closely. Cephalus typifies the ancestral which cannot, but must, be ques? tioned. Although his appearance is brief, by means of a few cir? cumspect inquiries Socrates manages to reveal his character and his principles and, hence, those of the tradition he represents. Then the old man is delicately set aside. He is a father in the fullest sense-he was once very erotic and he possesses a considerable store of money. He presents himself as a lover of speeches, and thereby a friend of Soc? rates. But he loves speeches only in his old age, and it is doubtful