unfaithful wife Aphrodite together with her ]over Ares and exposes them naked to the other gods, all but one are convulsed with laughter at the sight But Hermes says that he would be willing to undergo such humiliation if he could lie with Aphrodite. Shame cannot induce his eros to forsake the pursuit of the beautiful and the good, even if all the goddesses were to join the gods in observ? ing and laughing at him. Ultimately, from the Socratic point of view, Hermes is right. According to Socrates, the institution of the same practices for women as men is possible because it is natural; and it is proved to be natura] by arguing that the difference between men and women is no more important than the difference between ba]d men and men with hair. However, Socrates a]so admits that the best women are a]ways in? ferior in capacity to the best men; it is then high]y improbab]e that any women wou]d even be considered for membership in the higher dasses. Thus the who]e consideration of their education as guardians is un? necessary. If the fact that women bear children is to be ignored and does not play a role in their se1ection as guardians, if abi1ity is the only criterion, there wil1 not be a sufficient number of women in the guard? ian dass to reproduce it. It is evident that the women are placed among the guardians not because they possess the same capacities as the men, but precise]y because they are different, because they can bear children and the men cannot. To treat dissimi1ar persons similar]y is unjust and unnatura1. Maybe the sou]s are the same, but the influence of the body is powerful; the necessity of the body makes justice to sou]s difficult. Jn order to legitimate treating the women in the :Same way as the men, Socrates must fabricate a convention about the nature of women. Why then does Socrates insist on the same training for men and women? Women had hard]y been mentioned in the first four books. Why not let the men run the city and leave the women at home? Two reasons may be suggested, one political, the other trans-political. In the first place, neg]ect of the virtue of women may be said to be another Spartan error. Men need women and can easily be controlled by them. The character of the women in a society has a great dea] to do with the character of the men; for when the men are young, the women have a great deal to do with their rearing, and when they are older, they must please the women. Jn particular, women have a more powerful attach? ment to the home and the children than do men. They are involved with the private things which are likely to oppose the city. They characteristically do not Jike to send their sons off to war. Further, wom? en have much to do with men's desire to possess money.