gods do not give evil lots to good men, or good ones to bad men, nor can they be moved by prayer. Just men and just deeds are the only ones celebrated. There is nothing in the poetic universe which would make men think that injustice profits med or gods. The critique of poetry is divided according to the most important effects its representations have on men's beliefs, in particular, their. beliefs about the gods, courage, and moderation. Justice cannot be treated here, Socrates says, because they have not yet decided whetheJ( justice is good or not, and that would be essential to such a discussion'. The beliefs about the gods and the poetic depiction of them are the first topic Socrates and Adeimantus undertake. Courage, moderation, and justice-three of the four cardinal virtues defined in the Republic-are each mentioned in the context of the critique of poetry, but the fourth, wisdom, is not. It would seem necessary to infer that the warriors are not to be wise and that the beliefs about the gods are their substitute for wisdom. Those beliefs about the gods are a nonphilosophic equivalent of knowledge of the whole. The first segment of the study of poetry constitutes, therefore, a theology, a theology not true but salutary. Its doctrines are simple: the gods are good; they are the cause of the good; and they do not deceive. Nothing is said about the naturt of the gods' re? lations with men or whether they care for men at all. Similarly, there is no assurance that these are the Olympian gods or that they have any? thing in common with what Adeimantus understands a god to be. Cer? tainly Cephalus' piety, based on appeals to the gods for leniency, be? comes, in this light, highly questionable. It is not even clear that it is sensible to pray to such gods. A closer look at Socrates' prescriptions for the representations of the gods shows that they are not, in his view, all powerful and that they are subordinated to rational principle. They must be good and can only cause good; the deeper teaching implied here is that the good is the highest and most powerful principle of the cosmos. As opposed to the earlier views of the first things which the poets express, chaos is not the origin of all things; and the universe is fundamentally a cosmos, not a battlefield of contrary and discordant elements, as the poets represent it to be in their terrible tales of the family lives and wars of the gods. Those earlier views are not proved false here, but it is manifest that in such a world nobility and justice have no cosmic support; low can win over high, and the noble things can be in conflict with the necessary ones and with each other. In the new theology the higher is not derived from the lower, and the good is first. Similarly, the gods themselves are not representatives of becoming as