discussing, because they are unable to consider what's said by separating it out into its forms.13 They pursue contradiction in the mere name of whafs spoken about, using eristic, not dialectic, with one another."14 "This is surely what happens to many," he said. "But this doesn't apply to us too at present, does it?" "It most certainly does," I said. "At least we run the risk of un? willingly dealing in contradiction." "How?" "Following the name alone, we courageously, and eristically, in? sist that a nature that is not the same must not have the same practices. But we didn't make any sort of consideration of what form of different and same nature, and applying to what, we were distinguishing when we assigned different practices to a different nature and the same ones to the same." "No," he said, "we didn't consider it." b. "Accordingly," I said, "ifs permissible, as it seems, for us to ask ourselves whether the nature of the bald and the longhaired is the same or opposite. And, when we agree that it is opposite, if bald men are shoemakers, we won't let the longhaired ones be shoemakers, or if the longhaired ones are, then the others can't be." "That," he said, "would certainly be ridiculous," "Is it," I said, "ridiculous for any other reason than that we didn't refer to every sense of same and different nature but were guarding only that form of otherness and likeness which applies to the pursuits themselves? For example, we meant that a man and a woman whose souls are suited for the doctor's art have the same nature. Or don't you suppose so?" "I do." "But a man doctor and a man carpenter have different ones?" "Of course, entirely different." "Then," I said, "if either the class of men or that of women shows its superiority in some art or other practice, then we'll say that that art must be assigned to it. But if they look as though they differ in this alone, that the female bears and the male mounts, we'll assert that it has not thereby yet been proved that a woman differs from a man with respect to what we're talking about; rather, we'll still suppose that our guardians and their women must practice the same things." "And rightly," he said. "After that, won't we bid the man who says the opposite to teach us this very thing-with respect to what art or what practice connected with the organization of a city the nature of a woman and a man is not the same, but rather different?" "At least that's just." "Well, now, perhaps another man would also say just what you said a little while ago: that it's not easy to answer adequately on the spur of the moment; but upon consideration, it isn't at all hard." "Yes, he would say that." "Do you want us then to beg the man who contradicts in this way to foUow us and see if we