be worse, even though one acquires more money or more of some other power?" "In no way," he said. "And in what way is it profitable to -get away with doing injustice and not pay the penalty? Or doesn't the man who gets away with it be? come still worse; while, as for the man who doesn't get away with it and is punished, isn't the bestial part of him put to sleep and tamed, and the 591 b C d e 592a b tame part freed, and does_n't his whole soul-brought to its best nature acquiring moderation and justice accompanied by prudence----.:-gain a' habit more worthy of honor than the one a body gains with strength and beauty accompanied by health, in proportion as soul is more honorable than body?"_ "That's entirely certain," he said. "Then won't the man who has intelligence strain all of his powers to that end as long as he lives; in the first place, honoring the studies that will make his soul such, while despising the rest?" "Plainly," he said. "Next," I said, "not only won't he tum the habit and nourishment of the body over to the bestial and irrational pleasure and live turned in that direction, but he'll not even look to health, nor give precedence to being strong, healthy, or fair unless he's also going to become moderate as a result of them; rather he will always be seen adjusting the body's harmony for the sake of the accord in the soul." - "That's entirely certain," he said, "if he's going to be truly musical." "And won't he also maintain order and concord in the acquisition of money?" I said. "And, since he's not impressed with what the many deem to be blessedness, will he give boundless increase to the bulk of his property and thus possess boundless evils?" "I don't suppose he will," he said. . "Rather, he looks fixedly at the regime within him," I said, "and guards against upsetting anything in it by the possession of too much or too little substance. In this way, insofar as possible, he governs his ad? ditions to, and expenditure of, his substance." "That's quite certain," he said. "And, further, with honors too, he looks to the same thing; he will willingly partake of and taste those that he believes will make him bet? ter, while those that would overturn his established habit he will flee, in private and in public." "Then," he said, "if it's that he cares about, he won't be willing to mind the political things." "Yes, by the dog," I said, "he will in his own city, very much so. However, perhaps he won't in his fatherland unless some divine chance coincidentally comes to pass." "I understand," he said. "You mean he will in the city whose foundation we have now gone through, the one that has its place in speeches, since I don't suppose it exists anywhere on earth." "But in heaven," I said, "perhaps, a pattern