think the inseparable as two but as one." "Right." "But sight, too, saw big and little, we say, not separated, however, but mixed up together. Isn't that so?" "Yes.n "In order to clear this up the intellect was compelled to see big and little, too, not mixed up together but distinguished, doing the op? posite of what the sight did." "True." "Isn't it from here that it first occurs to us to ask what the big and the little are?" "That's entirely certain." "And so, it was on this ground that we called the one intelligible and the other visible." "Quite right," he said. "Well, then, this was what I was just trying to convey in saying that some things are apt to summon thought, while others are not, defining as apt to summon it those that strike the sense at the same time as their opposites, while all those that do not, are not apt to arouse in? tellection." "Well, now I understand," he said, "and in my opinion it is so." "What then? To which of the two do number and the one seem to belong?" "I can't conceive," he said. "Figure it out on the basis of what was said before," I said. "For if the one is adequately seen, itself by itself, or is grasped by 524e some other sense, it would not draw men toward being, as we were saying about the finger. But if some opposition to it is always seen at the same time, so that nothing looks as though it were one more than the opposite of one, then there would now be need of something o judge; and in this case, a soul would be compelled to be at a loss and to make an investigation, setting in motion the intelligence within it, and to ask what the one itself is. And thus the study of the one would i25 a be among those apt to lead and turn around toward the contempla- tion of what is." , "Surely," he said, "the sight, with respect to the one, possesses this characteristic to a very high degree. For we see the same thing at the same time as both one and as an unlimited multitude." "If this is the case with the one," I said, "won't it be the same for all number?" "Of course." "And, further, the arts of calculation and number are both wholly concerned with number."12 "Quite so." b. "Then it looks as if they lead toward truth." "Preternaturally so." "Therefore, as it seems, they would be among the studies we are seeking. It's necessary for a warrior to learn them for the sake of his dispositions for the army, and for a philosopher because he must rise up out of becoming and take hold of being or else never become skilled at calculating." "That's so," he said. "And our guardian is both warrior and philosopher." "Certainly." "Then it would be fitting, Glaucon, to set this study down in