it also made him unable to participate in this discussion. Socrates is looking for another way to make men love justice, onr, which does not force them to turn away from this life and to be hostile to reason. Socrates wishes to expunge all of these disagreeable stories about Hades from the literature. But in so doing he seems to destroy the vir? tue of courage. If there is nothing terrible in death, then the sacrifice of life is not particularly praiseworthy. It would not require the overcom? ing of fear. Socrates' intention is not, however, to turn the warriors into dependable automatons. His true intention comes to light in the seven quotations from Homer, concerning Hades, he cites at the beginning of this part of the discussion. All but the central one have to do more or less directly with Achilles; so indeed do most of the Homeric passages cited in what remains of the discussion of poetry. Socrates brings Achilles to the foreground in order to analyze his character and ul? timately to do away with him as the model for the young. The figure of Achilles, more than any teaching or law, compels the souls of Greeks and all men who pursue glory. He is the hero of heroes, admired and imi? tated by all. And this is what Socrates wishes to combat; he teaches that if Achilles is the model, men will not pursue philosophy, that what he stands for is inimical to the founding of the best city and the practice of the best way oflife. Socrates is engaging in a contest with Homer for the title of teacher of the Greeks-or of mankind. One of his principal goals is to put himself in the place of Achilles as the authentic representation of the best human type. One need only look at their physical descriptions to recognize that they are polar opposites. Socrates is attempting to work a fantastic transformation of men's tastes in making the ugly old man more attractive than the fair y-0uth. Now, it is perfectly obvious that Achilles, although he believed that Hades was a dreadful place, was still able to be courageous. Soc? rates cannot seriously mean that the view of Hades presented by Homer necessarily makes a man a coward. In the Apology, where he most forcefully states his superiority to the fear of death, Socrates iden? tifies himself with Achilles. It is not for a failure of courage that Soc? rates is reproaching the heroes. What he objects to is the price such men, given their understanding of death, must pay in order to face it. With his analysis of Achilles, Socrates is actually beginning a critique of the courage based on spiritedness which is thus also a critique of the warrior class of his city. The surface presentation of spiritedness and spirited men in the Republic is that they are easily educable and can become the foundation of the good city. This is a necessary presupposi? tion