products of the arts are worse and the men themselves are worse." "It looks like it." "So, as it seems, we've found other things for the guardians to guard against in every way so that these things never slip into the city without their awareness." "What are they?" "Wealth and poverty," I said, "since the one produces luxury, idleness, and innovation, while the other produces illiberality and wrongdoing as well as innovation." "Most certainly,"' he said. "However, Socrates, consider this: how will our city be able to make war when it possesses no money, espe? cially if it's compelled to make war against a wealthy one?" "It's plain," I said, "that against one it would be harder, but against two of that sort it would be easier." "How do you mean?" he said. "Well," I said, "in the first place, if the guardians should have to fight, won't it be as champions in war fighting with rich men?" "Yes," he said, "that's so." "Now, then, Adeimantus," I said, in your opinion, wouldn't one boxer with the finest possible training in the art easily fight with two rich, fat nonboxers?" "Perhaps not at the same time," he said. 421 C d e 422 a b 422b C d e 423 a b "Not even if it were possible for him to withdraw a bit," I said "and turning on whichever one came up first, to strike him, and if h; did this repeatedly in sun and stifling heat? Couldn't such a man handle even more of that sort?" "Undoubtedly," he said, "that wouldn't be at all surprising." "But don't you suppose the rich have more knowledge and ex? perience of boxing than of the art of war?" "I do," he said. "Then in all likelihood our champions will easily fight with two or three times their number." 'Tll grant you that," he said, "for what you say is right in my opinion." "What if they sent an embassy to the other city and told the truth? 'We make use of neither gold nor silver, nor is it lawful for us, while it is for you. So join us in making war and keep the others' property.' Do you suppose any who hear that will choose to make war against solid, lean dogs4 rather than with the dogs against fat and tender sheep?" "Not in my opinion," he said. "But if the money of the others is gathered into one city, look out that it doesn't endanger the city that isn't rich." "You are a happy one," I said, "if you suppose it is fit to call 'city' another than such as we have been equipping." "What else then?" he said. "The others ought to get bigger names," I said. "For each of them is very many cities but not a city, as those who play say.5 There are two, in any case, warring with each other, one of the poor, the other of the rich. And within each of these there