case." "Then affirm this or deny it: when we say a man is a desirer of something, will we assert that he desires all of that form, or one part of it and not another?" "All," he said. "Won't we also then assert that the philosopher is a desirer of wisdom, not of one part and not another, but of all of it?" "True." "We'll deny, therefore, that the one who's finicky about his learn- 474d e 475a b ing, especially when he's young and doesn't yet have an account of c whafs useful and not, is a lover ofleaming or a philosopher, just as we say that the man who's finicky about his food isn't hungry, doesn't desire food, and isn't a lover of food but a bad eater." "And we'll be right in denying it." "But the one who is willing to taste every kind of learning with gusto, and who approaches learning with delight, and is insatiable, we shall justly assert to be a philosopher, won't we?" And Glaucon said, ''Then you'll have many strange ones. For all d the lovers of sights are in my opinion what they are because they enjoy ' learning; and the lovers of hearing would be some of the strangest to t include among philosophers, those who would never be willing to go voluntarily to a discussion and such occupations but who-just as though they had hired out their ears for hearing-run around to every [ 155 J 475 d chorus at the Dionysia, m1ssmg none in the cities or the villages.38 Will we say that all these men and other learners of such things and the b. petty arts are philosophers?" "Not at all," I said, "but they are like philosophers." "Who do you say are the true ones?" he said. "The lovers of the sight of the truth," I said. "And that's right," he said. "But how do you mean it?" "It wouldn't be at all easy to tell someone else. But you, I sup? pose, will grant me this." "What?" "Since fair is the opposite of ugly, they are two." 476 a "Of course." "Since they are two, isn't each also one?" "That is so as well." "The same argument also applies then to justice and injustice, good and bad, and all the forms; each is itself one, but, by showing up everywhere in a community with actions, bodies, and one another, each is an apparitional many." "What you say," he said, "is right." "Well, now," I said, "this is how I separate them out. On one side I put those of whom you were just speaking, the lovers of sights, the lovers of arts, and the practical men; on the other, those whom the argu- b. ment concerns, whom alone one could rightly call philosophers." "How do you mean?" he said. "The lovers of hearing and the lovers of sights, on the one hand," I said, "surely delight in fair sounds and colors and shapes and all