part of himself to the most godless and polluted part and has no pity, won't he then be wretched and accept golden gifts for a destruction 590 a more terrjble by far than Eriphyle's accepting the necklace for her hus? band's soul?"J3 "Far more terrible indeed," said Glaucon. ''I'll answer you on his behalf." "Don't you suppose that being licentious has also long been blamed for reasons of this kind, since by that sort of thing that terrible, great, and many-formed beast is given freer rein than it ought to have?" "Plainly," he said. "And aren't stubbornness and bad temper blamed when they in- harmoniously strengthen and strain the lion-like and snake-like part?" 590 l "Most certainly." "And aren't luxury and softness blamed for slackening and relax? ing this same part when they introduce cowardice in it?" "Of course." "And aren't flattery and illiberality blamed when a man subjects this same part, the spirited, to the mob-like beast; and, letting it be in? sulted for the sake of money and the beast's insatiability, habituates it from youth on to be an ape instead of a lion?" "Quite so," he said. "And why do you suppose mechanical and manual art bring reproach? Or shall we say that this is because of anything else than when the form of the best is by nature so weak in a man that he isn't capable of ruling the beasts in himself, but only of serving them, and is capable of learning only the things that flatter them?" "So it seems," he said. "In order that such a man also be ruled by something similar to what rules the best man, don't we say that he must be the slave of that best man who has the divine rule in himself? It's not that we suppose the slave must be ruled to his own detriment, as Thrasymachus sup? posed about the ruled; but that it's better for all to be ruled by what is divine and prudent, especially when one has it as his own within him? self; but, if not, set over one from outside, so that insofar as possible al1 will be alike and friends, piloted by the same thing." "Yes," he said, "that's right." "And the law," I said, "as an ally of all in the city, also makes it plain that it wants something of the kind; and so does the rule over the children, their not being set free until we establish a regime in them as in a city, and until-having cared for the best part in them with the like 591 in ourselves-we establish a similar guardian and ruler in them to take our place; only then, do we set them free." "Yes," he said, "they do make that plain." "Then in what way, Glaucon, and on the basis of what argument, will we affirm that it is profitable to do injustice, or be licentious, or do anything base, when as a result of these things one will