started, will roll on like a circle in its growth. For sound rearing and education, when they are preserved, produce good natures; and sound natures, in their turn receiving such an education, grow up still better than those before them, for procreation as well as for the other things, as is also the case with the other animals." "It's likely," he said. "Now, to state it briefly, the overseers of the city must cleave to this, not letting it be corrupted unawares, but guarding it against all comers: there must be no innovation in gymnastic and music contrary to the established order; but they will guard against it as much as they can, fearing that when someone says Human beings esteem most that song Which floats newest from the singer6 423b C d e 424a b 424 C d e 425 a b someone might perchance suppose the poet means not new songs, buta new way of song, and praises that. Such a saying shouldn't be praised nor should this one be taken in that sense. For they must beware of chang to a strange fo1m of music, taking it to be a danger to the whole. For never are the ways7 of music moved without the greatest political laws being moved, as Damon says, and I am persuaded." "Include me, too," said Adeimantus, "among those who are per? suaded." "So it's surely here in music, as it seems," I said, "that the guard? ians must build the guardhouse." "At least," he said, "this kind of lawlessness8 easily creeps in unawares." "Yes," I said, "since it's considered to be a kind of play and to do no harm." "It doesn't do any, either," he said, "except that, establishing it? self bit by bit, it flows gently beneath the surface into the dispositions and practices, and from there it emerges bigger in men's contracts with one another; and it's from the contracts, Socrates, that it attacks laws and regimes with much insolence until it finally subverts everything private and public." "Well, well," I said. "Is that so?" "In my opinion," he said. "Then, as we were saying at the beginning, mustn't our boys take part in more lawful play straight away, since, if play becomes lawless itself and the children along with it, it's not possible that they'll grow up to be law-abiding, good men?" "Of course, they must," he said. "It's precisely when the boys make a fine beginning at play and receive lawfulness from music that it-as opposed to what happened in the former case-accompanies them in everything and grows, setting right anything in the city that may have previously been neglected." "Quite true," he said. "Then, these men," I said, "will also find out the seemingly small conventions that were all destroyed by their predecessors." "What kind of things?" "Such as the appropriate silence of younger men in the presence of older ones, making way for them and rising, care of parents; and hair-dos, clothing, shoes, and, as