men, known as the "Thirty Tyrants," who ruled Athens after its defeat by Sparta in the Pelo? ponnesian War. In that resistance, the family of Cephalus, especially Lysias (cf. 328b and note 7), played a leading role. Polemarchus was executed by the tyrants. Socrates was suspected of sympathy with and influence over the leaders of the tyranny because several had been among his companions. In the Apology (32c--d) he makes a point of showing his disagreement with this oligarchy, and the grounds of that disagreement. But his position in relation to the democracy remains ambiguous. The conversation in the RepulJlic takes place in the shadow of the "Thirty." They had much to do with the execution, not only of Polemarchus, but also, indirectly, of Socrates; and the dialogue treats, at least in part, of the tyrannical ambitions of Socrates' companions. The men who gather here in happy days for a theoretical conversation are soon to fall on evil ones in the practice of politics. The problems of that prac? tice, which are later to be revealed in deed, are here discussed. This is the drama of the Republic, without which its teaching cannot be understood. This friendly association of ten men with whoin Socrates talks in the Piraeus will be replaced by a committee of ten men who brutally rule there in the name of the "Thirty" and put the host of this meeting to death. The participants discuss the best regime but are to experience the worst. 1. Ariston was Plato's father, and Glaucon and Adeimantus were his brothers (cf. 368a). 2. Apparently the festival of Bendis (cf. 354a). Bendis was a foreign goddess; she was related to the moon by the Thracians who worshiped her. The Piraeus seems to have been a center for innovations in everything, includ? ing religion. 3. At the end of this scene, which is a dramatic prefiguration of the whole political problem, Socrates uses this word as it was used in the political assembly to announce that the sovereign authority had passed a law or decree. It is the expression with which the laws begin, "It is resolved by [literally, 'it seems to'] the Athenian people " 4. Onofethe classic Attic orators. He played an important role in the overthrow of the "Thirty" and the restoration of the democracy. 5. A man who taught rhetoric, the art of political and legal persuasion, and who earned his living from his teaching. 6. Paeania was a deme or township. These were the ancient divisions of Athens which had later been politically submerged in the Cleisthenic division of the city into tribes. They still retained their identity, and Plato frequently uses the name of the deme as a substitute for the patronymic in the identifica? tion of individuals. 7. There is a short dialogue that bears his name. It is the natural in? troduction to the Republic in that it discusses Socrates' way of teaching virtue, particularly justice, and compares it with that of Thrasymachus. Lysias