possible age, they must be mounted on horses," I said, "and when they've been taught how to ride, they must be led to the spectacle on horses, not spirited and combative ones, but the swiftest and most easily reined. Thus they will get th fairest look at their own work and, if need be, will make the surest escape to safety following older leaders." "In my opinion," he said, "what you say is right." "Now what about the business of war?" I said. "How must your 468 c soldiers behave toward one another and the enemies? Is the way it looks to me right or not?" "Just tell me," he said, "what that is." "If one of them," I said, "leaves the ranks or throws away his arms, or does anything of the sort because of cowardice, mustn't he be demoted to craftsman or farmer?" 468a b C d e "Most certainly." "And the man who's taken alive by the enemy, won't we give him as a gift to those who took him, to use their catch as they wish?'' "Exactly." "Is it or isn't it your opinion that the man who has proved best and earned a good reputation must first be crowned by each of those who made the campaign with him, youths and boys in tum?" "It surely is." "And what about this? Must his right hand be shaken?" "That too." "But I suppose," I said, "you wouldn't go so far as to accept this further opinion." "What?" "That he kiss and be kissed by each." "Most of all," he aid. "And I add to the law that as long as they are on that campaign no one whom he wants to kiss be permitted to refuse, so that if a man happens to love someone, either male or female, he would be more eager to win the rewards of valor." "Fine," I said. "That marriages will be more readily available for a man who's good than for the others, and that he will frequently be chosen for that sort of thing in preference to the others, so that the most children will be born of such a man, has already been said." "Yes," he said, "we did say that." "Further, according to Homer too, it's just to honor in such ways whoever is good among the young. For Homer said that Ajax, when he earned a good reputation in the war, 'received as prize the whole back? bone,' as though the honor appropriate for a man who is in the bloom of youth and courageous is that by which he will at the same time be honored and increase his strength."28 "Quite right," he said. "Therefore we'll believe Homer in this at least," I said. "And at sacrifices and all such occasions we'll honor the good, insofar as they have shown themselves to be good, with hymns and the things we were mentioning just now and, besides that, with 'seats and meats and full cups,'29 so