and all his practices aren't such-how magnificently it tramples all this underfoot and doesn't care at all from what kinds of practices a man goes to political. action, but honors him if only he says he's well disposed toward the multitude?" "It's a very noble regime," he said. "Then, democracy," I said, "would have all this and other things akin to it and would be, as it seems, a sweet regime, without rulers and many-colored, dispensing a certain equality to equals and unequals alike." "What you say," he said, "is quite well known." "Reflect, then," I said, "who is the private man like this? Or, just as we did in the case of the regime, must we first consider how he comes to be?" "Yes," he said. "Isn't it this way? I suppose a son would be born to that stingy, c. oligarchic man, a son reared by his father in his dispositions." "Of course." "Now, this son too, forcibly ruling all the pleasures in himself that are spendthrifty and do not conduce to money-making, those ones that are called unnecessary-" "Plainly," he said. "So that we don't discuss in the dark," I said, "do you want us to define the necessary and the unnecessary desires?" "Yes," he said, "that's what I want." "Wouldn't those we aren't able to turn aside justly be called necessary, as well as all those whose satisfaction benefits us? We are by nature compelled to long for both of these, aren't we?" "Quite so." "Then we shall justly apply the term necessary to them.'1 "That is just.'' "And what about this? If we were to affirm that all those are un? necessary of which a man could rid himself if he were to practice from youth on and whose presence, moreover, does no good-and sometimes even does the opposite of good-would what we say be fine?" "Fine it would be.'' "Then shall we choose an example of what each of them is so that we can grasp their general types?" "Yes, we must.'' "Wouldn't the desire of eating-as long as it is for health and good condition, the desire of mere bread and relish-be necessary?'' "I suppose so." "The desire for bread, at least, is presumably necessary on both counts, in that it is beneficial and in that it is capable of putting an end to life." "Yes." "And so is the desire for relish, if in any way it is beneficial to good condition." "Most certainly." "But what about the desire that goes beyond toward sorts of food other than this, of which the many can be rid if it is checked in youth and educated, and is harmful to the body and to the soul with 558d e 559 a b respect to prudence and moderation? Wouldn't it rightly be called un- c necessary?" "Most rightly indeed." "Then wouldn't we also assert that the latter desires are spendthrifty, while the former are money-making because they are useful18 for our works?" "Surely.'' "Then won't