gain." "But if not, my dear comrade, just like the men who have once fallen in love with someone, and don't believe the love is beneficial, keep away from it even if they have to do violence to themselves; so we toer-due to the inborn love of such poetry we owe to our rearing in these fine regimes-we'll be glad if it turns out that it is best and truest. But as long as it's not able to make its apology, when we listen to it, we1l chant this argument we are making to ourselves as a coun? tercharm, taking care against falling back again into this love, which is childish and belongs to the many. We are, at all events, aware that such poetry mustn't be taken seriously as a serious thing laying hold of truth, but that the man who hears it must be careful, fearing for the regime in himself, and must hold what we have said about poetry." "Entirely," he said. "I join you in saying that." "For the contest is great, my dear Glaucon," I said, "greater than it seems-this contest that concerns becoming good or bad-so we mustn't be tempted by honor or money or any ruling office or, for that matter, poetry, into thinking that it's worthwhile to neglect justice and the rest of virtue." "I join you in saying that," he said, "on the basis of what we have gone through. And I suppose anyone else would too." "And, yet," I said, "we haven't gone through the greatest rewards and prizes proposed for virtue." "You are speaking of an inconceivable greatness," he said, "if there are others greater than those mentioned." "What that is great could come to pass in a short time?'' I said. 607 C d e 608 a b C 608C d e 609a b "For surely, the whole of the time from childhood to old age wouldb short when compared with all time." _ e "Rather, it's nothing at all," he said. "What then? Do you suppose that an immortal thing ought to be serious about so short a time and not about all time?" "I do suppose so," he said. "But what do you mean by this?" "Haven't you perceived," I said, "that our soul is immortal and is never destroyed?" And he looked me in the face with wonder and said, "No, by Zeus, I haven't. Can you say that?" "If I am not to do an injustice," I said. "And I suppose you can too, for it's nothing hard." ' "It is for me," he said. "But I would gladly hear from you this thing that isn't hard." "You must hear it," I said. "Just speak," he said. "Do you," I said, "call something good and something bad?" "I do." "Then do you have the same understanding of them as I do?" "What's that?" "What destroys and corrupts everything is the bad, and what saves and benefits is the good." "I do," he said. "And