people must be persuaded to accept the philosophers; but the philosophers must be compelled to persuade the people to compel them to rule. And who would do that? This is not an accidental difficulty of communication between the two sides; it is grounded on real conflicts of interest. Glaucon objects to the injustice of forcing the philosophers to return to the cave. This is injustice in the fuilest sense of the word: it would be contrary to their good to return. Or to put it into the formula for justice: the city would force one man to do two jobs, to be both philosopher and king. It has become perfectly manifest that the life of reason, contrary to the political view stated in Book IV, has a character of its own far different from the calculation of the practical man. The activity of a king is not the same as that of a philosopher. It is at this point in the elaboration of the good city that we see that it cannot fulfill its intention and is hence a failure. The attempt was to found a city in which every member's duty was identical to his self-interest, in which total dedication was possible, in which the universal demands of justice didnoutndermine the laws of the city, and in which there was no claim that went beyond the city limits. This was to be a city without limits. But now it is evident that in the decisive respect the city is not natural: it cannot comprehend the highest activity of man. We modern men are accustomed to insist that almost every claim against civil society is valid, but Socrates denies this. There is only one claim the dignity of which is greater than that of the city; only at this point do the limits of the city become clear. In the light of the splendor of the soul's yearning after the whole, the city looks very ugly. This is the true comedy-taking the city with infinite seriousness, beautifying it with every artifice, making it a veritable Callipolis, and then finding that compared to the soul which was supposed to be like it, it is a thing to be despised. This fair city, the goal of so many aspirations, now looks like a cave, and its happy citizens like prisoners; it is comparable to the Hades of which Achilles complained, and the attachment to it is a species of folly. From the point of view of the city, the philosopher looks ridiculous; but from the point of view of tre whole, the citizen looks ridiculous. Socrates asks which of the two cqntexts is the more authoritative. Aristophanes' com? edy is the human comedy, Socrates' the divine. Only the philosophers can provide the city with an end that can direct its a tions. The ordinary statesmen serve the city and seek to provide for its preservation, which is only a condition of action, not an end. Only knowledge seems to have the character