name. Thus they are the causes of the things seen and heard? causes not in the sense that they explain the coming-into-being of a particular thing but in the sense that they explain its character. The idea of man is the cause of a particu1ar man's being a man rather than a collection of the elements to which he can be reduced. The ideas, then, are the justification of the philosophic life. If there are no permanent entities, if everything is in flux, there can be no knowledge. Knowledge, or science, requires universals of which the particulars are imperfect examples; as knowing beings we care only for the universals. The ideas give reality to the universals and hence make it possible to explain the fact that man possesses knowledge. The ideas are the being of things. They constitute an account of the first causes of things which also does justice to the observed heterogeneity of the visible universe, unlike earlier, pre-Socratic accounts of being which required the reduction of all things to a single kind of being-like the atoms-thus making the specific characters of those things unintelligible. This teaching provides those intelligible, diverse, permanent, universal beings which the mind seems to seek when it attempts to define or to explain. In undertaking to look for justice, Socrates and his companions were looking for some? thing real, which has a higher dignity than, and can act as a standard for, the imperfect justice which they found in men and cities. If there is not something like an idea of justice, their quest is futile. And it is in this quest for the universal principles that the theoretical man first meets the opposition of the unphilosophic men who make up a city. They are loyal not to cities in general but to their own city; they love not men in general, but this particular man or wom? an; they are not interested in the nati.ue of the species, but their own fates. However, all the things to which citizens are most passionately attached have a lessened reality in the eyes of the theoretical man; what is peculiar to these things, what constitutes their charm for the prac? tical man, must be overcome in order to understand them. For the practical man the particular things to which he is attached are the real things, and he will resist any attempt to go beyond them to "the more general case," which would destroy their character and his capacity to possess them as his very own. The city in speech of the philosopher comes into being only by depreciating Athens, and any other city in which men can live. To the philosopher the city in speech is more lovable and more real than any of the particular cities which are to him poor imitations of the city in speech. In order to love what is, he must be a man who does not have the same needs as other men; he must have overcome, at