opposed to being; of all things, they are the most unchanging; they are not moved by the desires of the body which are the sign of weakness and change and dependence. Primacy is given to rest and eternity over motion and time. The gods are a prefiguration of the ideas which are known to the philosophers. The man who believes in these gods, while loving the city and justice, will not hate and consider impious the philosopher who teaches the ideas. A further important consequence of the discussion about the gods follows from the fact that the gods do not lie. In the discussion with Ceph? alus it was indicated that just as human justice sometimes requires not repaying debts, so it sometimes requires not telling the truth. That gods never lie would seem to imply that they have nothing to do with men and are not their friends. The world in which men Jive contains evil as well as good, and, although the dominance of the good in the cosmos at large is reassuring for the human estate, it does not perfect it. Men cannot live like the gods. Later we are told that rulers must lie; hence the gods are not rulers, and rulers cannot imitate the virtues of gods. Statesmen require a human prudence in which the gods can give them no guidance. This reform of the poetic account of the gods leads to the consequence that in the future the poetic depictions of the gods cannot serve as models for human conduct. (386a-c-392c) These beliefs about the gods, Socrates says, will make the warriors men who honor the gods and ancestors and who are serious about their friendship with one another. This means that the proper opinions about the gods will cause the warriors to be both pious and just in the common meanings of these terms. Next comes courage, the virtue governing and perfecting spiritedness. It does not depend so much on beliefs about the gods, whose place is usually held to be in the heavens, but on beliefs about Hades, the home of the dead, which is generally thought to be beneath the earth. Homer's description of Hades is repulsive and frightening, and Socrates asserts that men who believe it cannot be courageous. Here Socrates' critique is completely negative; he simply says such things must not be said. He does not, as he did with the gods, tell what must be said. He does not even say that Hades exists or that there is any life after death. The existence of some kind of gods seems less questionable than the existence of an afterlife. Strangely, Socrates insists only that death should not be frightening, without paying any attention to the salutary effect such fear might have. Apparently, it is not only the warriors who are liberated from their terrors about a life to come, but also men like Cephalus. This ter- ror caused Cephalus to try to live justly in his old age. But