condition." "Of course." "So, in this way, the god would least of all have many shapes." "Least of all, surely." "But would he be the one to transform and alter himself?" "It's plain," he said, "if he's altered at all." "Does he transform himself into what's better and fairer, or what's worse and uglier than himself?" "Necessarily into what's worse," he said, "if he's altered at all. C For surely we won't say that the god is wanting in beauty or virtue." "What you say is very right," I said. "And, if this is so, in your opinion, Adeimantus, does anyone, either god or human being, willingly make himself worse in any way at all?" "It's impossible," he said. "Then it's impossible," I said, "for a god to want to alter himself, but since, as it seems, each of them is as fair and as good as possible, he remains forever simply in his own shape." "That's entirely necessary, in my opinion at least," he said. ''Then, you best of men," I said, "let none of the poets tell us d that The gods, like wandering strangers, Take on every sort of shape and visit the cities52 and let none tell lies about Proteus and Thetis53 or bring on an altered Hera, either in tragedies or the other kinds of poetry, as a priestess Making a collection for the life-giving children of Inachus, Argos' river54 and let them not lie to us in many other such ways. Nor should the e mothers, in their turn, be convinced by these things and frighten the children with tales badly told-that certain gods go around nights look- ing like all sorts of strangers-lest they slander the gods while at the same time making the children more cowardly." "No, they shouldn't," he said. "But," I said, "while the gods themsclves can't be transformed, do 381 e 382a b C they make us think they appear ih all sorts of ways, deceiving and bewitching us?" "Perhaps," he said. "What?" I said. "Would a god want to lie, either in speech or deed by presenting an illusion?" "I don't know," he said. "Don't you know," I said, "that all gods and human beings hate the true lie, if that expression can be used?" "What do you mean?" he said. "That surely no one," I said, "voluntarily wishes to lie about the most sovereign things to what is most sovereign in himself. Rather, he fears holding a lie there more than anything." "I still don't understand," he said. "That's because you suppose I mean something exalted," I said. "But I mean that to lie and to have lied to the soul about the things that are, and to be unlearned, and to have and to hold a lie there is what everyone would least accept; and that everyone hates a lie in that place most of all." "Quite so," he said. . "Now what I was just talking about would most correctly be called truly a lie-the