for them pretty much like the one we're now seeking; and he must say the god's works were just and good, and that these people profited by being punished. But the poet mustn't be allowed to say that those who pay the penalty are wretched and that the one who did it was a god. If, however, he should say that the bad men were wretched because they needed punishment and that in paying the penalty they were benefited by the god, it must be allowed. As for the assertion that a god, who is good, is the cause of evil to anyone, great exertions must be made against anyone's saying these things in his own city, if its laws are going to be well observed, or anyone's hearing them, whether he is younger or older, whether the tale is told in meter or without meter. For these are to be taken as sayings that, if said, are neither holy, nor advantageous for us, nor in harmony with one another." "I give my vote to you in support of this law," he said, "and it pleases me."51 "Now, then," I said, "this would be one of the laws and models concerning the gods, according to which those who produce speeches wil1 have to do their speaking and those who produce poems will have to do their making: the god is not the cause of all things, but of the good." "And it's very satisfactory," he said. "Now, what about this second one? Do you suppose the god is a wizard, able treacherously to reveal himself at different times in dif? ferent ideas, at one time actually himself changing and passing from his own form into many shapes, at another time deceiving us and making us think such things about him? Or is he simple and does he least of all things depart from his own idea?" "On the spur of the moment, I can't say," he said. "What about this? Isn't it necessary that, if something steps out of its own idea, it be changed either by itself or something else?" "Yes, it is necessary." "Are things that are in the best condition least altered and moved by something else-for example, a body by food, drink, and labor, and an plants by the sun's heat, winds, and other affections of the sort; aren't the healthiest and strongest least altered?" "Of course." "And a soul that is most courageous and most prudent, wouldn't an external affection least trouble and alter it?" -"Yes.,:, "And, agafo, the same argument surely also holds for all com? posites, implements, houses, and clothing; those that are well made and in good condition are least altered by time and the other affections." 381 a "Th at's so." ; "Hence everything that's in fine condition, whether by nature or b art or both, admits least transformation by anything else." "It seems so." "Now, the god and what belongs to the god are in every way in the best