opposite of pleasure?'' "Quite so." "Don't we also say that being affected by neither joy nor pain is something?" "We do indeed say that it is." "Is it in the middle between these two, a certain repose of the soul with respect to them? Or don't you say it's that way?" "Just so," he said. "Don't you remember," I said, "the words of sick men, spoken when they are sick?" "What words?" "That after all nothing is more pleasant than being healthy, but before they were sick it had escaped them that it is most pleasant." "I do remember," he said. "And don't you also hear those who are undergoing some intense _suffering saying that nothing is more pleasa:pt than the cessation of suf? fering?" "I do hear them." "And I suppose you are aware of many other similar cir? cumstances in which human beings, while they are in pain, extol as most pleasant not enjoyment but rather the absence of pain and repose from it." "For," he said, "at that time repose perhaps becomes pleasant and enough to content them." "And when a man's enjoyment ceases," I said, "then the repose from pleasure will be painful." "Perhaps," he said. "Therefore, what we were just saying is between the two-repose -will at times be both, pain and pleasure." "So it seems." "And is it possible that what is neither can become both?" "Not in my opinion." "And, moreover, the pleasant and the painful, when they arise in the soul, are both a sort of motion, aren't they?" ''Yes..,., 583 b C d e "And didn't what is neither painful nor pleasant, however, just 584 a come to light as repose and in the middle between these two?" "Yes, that's the way it came to light.' SOCRATES/GLAUCON THE REPUBLIC, 584 a "Then how can it be right to believe that the absence of suffering 'i is pleasant or that the absence of enjoyment is grievous?" "In no way." "Therefore it is not so," I said, "but when it is next to the painful repose looks pleasant and next to the pleasant, painful; and in these ap: pearances there is nothing sound, so far as truth of pleasure goes, onlya certain wizardry." "So the argument indicates, at least," he said. b. ' " here shall I look," he said, "and what pleasures do you mean? "There are many others, too," I said, "but, if you are willing to reflect on them, the pleasures of smells in particular. For these, without previous pain, suddenly become extraordinarily great and, once having ceased, leave no pain behind." "Very true," he said. b. "Then, let's not be persuaded that relief from pain is pure pleasure or that relief from pleasure is pure pain." "No, let's not," he said. "However," I said, "of the so-called pleasures stretched through the body to the soul, just about most, and the greatest ones, belong to this form; they are kinds of relief from pains." "Yes, they are." "Isn't this also