what provides the truth to the things known and gives the power to the one who knows, is the idea of the good. And, as the cause of the knowledge and truth, you can understand it to be a thing known; but, as fair as these two are-knowledge and truth-if you believe that it is something different from them and still fairer than they, your belief will be right. As for knowledge and truth, just as in the other region it is right to hold light and sight sunlike, but to believe them to be sun is not right; so, too, here, to hold these two to be like the good is right, but to believe that either of them is the good is not right. The condition which characterizes the good must receive still greater honor." _ "You speak of an overwhelming beauty," he said, "if it provides knowledge and truth but is itself beyond them in beauty. You surely don't mean it is pleasure." "Hush,33 Glaucon," I said. "But consider its image still further in this way." "How?" "I suppose you'll say the sun not only provides what is seen with the power of being seen, but also with generation, growth, and nourish? ment although it itself isn't generation." "Of course." "Therefore, say that not only being known is present in the things known as a consequence of the good, but also existence and being are in them besides as a result of it, although the good isn't being but is stiJl beyond being, exceeding it in dignity34 and power." 508d e 509 a b And Glaucon, quite ridiculously, said, "Apollo, what a demonic c excess." "You/' I said, "are responsible for compelling me to tell my opinions about it." "And don't under any conditions stop," he said, "at least until you have gone through the likeness with the sun, if you are leaving anything out." "But, of course," I said, "I am leaving out a throng of things." "Well," he said, "don't leave even the slightest thing aside." [ 189 J 509 C d e 510a b C "I suppose I will leave out quite a bit," I said. "But all the same insofar as it's possible at present, I'll not leave anything out willingly_:. "Don't," he said. "Well, then," I said, "conceive that, as we say, these two things are, and that the one is king of the inte1ligible class and region, while the other is king of the visible. I don't say 'of the heaven' so as not to seem to you to be playing the sophist with the name:35 Now, do you have these two forms, visible and intelligible?" "I do." "Then, take a line cut in two unequal segments, one for the class that is seen, the other for the class that is intellected-and go on and cut each segment in the same ratio. Now, in terms of relative clarity and obscurity, you'll have one segment in the visible part for images. I