If you want to gratify me, consider this before the other." b. "But I do want to," I said, "so as not to do an injustice." "Then consider it," he said. "It must be considered," I said. "Seen from here, it's more like a kind of accord and harmony than the previous ones." "How?" "Moderation," I said, "is surely a certain kind of order and mastery of certain kinds of pleasures and desires, as men say when they use-I don't know in what way-the phrase 'stronger than himself'; and some other phrases of the sort are, used that are, as it were, its tracks.17 Isn't that so?" "Most surely," he said. "Isn't the phrase 'stronger than himself' ridiculous though? For, of course, the one who's stronger than himself would also be weaker than himself, and the weaker stronger. The same 'himself' is referred to in all of them." "Of course it is." "But," I said, "this speech looks to me as if it wants to say that, concerning the soul, in the same human being there is something better and something worse. The phrase 'stronger than himself'is used when that which is better by nature is master over that which is worse. At least it's praise. And when, from bad training or some association, the smaller and better part is mastered by the inferior multitude, then this, as though it were a reproach, is blamed and the man in this condition is called weaker than himself and licentious." "Yes," he said, "that's likely." "Now, then," I said, "take a glance at our young city, and you'll find one of these conditions in it. For you'll say that it's justly designated stronger than itself, if that in which the better rules over the worse must be called moderate and 'stronger than itself.'" "Well, I am glancing at it," he said, "and what you say is true." "And, further, one would find many diverse desires, pleasures, and pains, especially in children, women, domestics, and in those who are called free among the common many.'' "Most certainly." "But the simple and moderate desires, pleasures and pains, those led by calculation accompanied by intelligence and right opinion, you will come upon in few, and those the ones born with the best natures and best educated." "True," he said. "Don't you see that all these are in your city too, and that there the desires in the common many are mastered by the desires and the prudence in the more decent few?" 430e 431 a b C d [ 1og ] 431 d e 432a b C "I do," he said. "If, therefore, any city ought to be designated stronger than pleasures, desires, and itself, then this one must be so called." "That's entirely certain," he said. "And then moderate in all these respects too?'' "Very much so," he said. "And, moreover, if there is any city in which the rulers and the ruled have the same opinion about who should rule, then it's this