subversive. He depicts Socrates.as a man "who has investigated all the things in the air and under the earth and who makes the weaker argument stronger." The meaning of this charge is that the philosopher studies nature, particularly the heavens, and there he finds a true account of the celestial phenomena differing widely from that given in the religious myths; for example, he learns of a purely mechanical explanation of Zeus' thunderbolt. The philosopher's contemplation of the heavens dissolves the perspective of the city, the laws of which now seem to be mere conventions with no natural status. His way of life turns him from the duties of citizenship, and what he learns teaches him to despise the human, political things. What is more, the philosopher's understanding of the causes of all things makes it im? possible for him to grasp mari on his own level; man is re<luced to non? man, the political to the subpolitical. The philosophers are alienated from the human things, which only poetry can adequately reproduce. The poet, in a more profound way, joins the city in its condemnation of philosophy as an enemy of political man. Socrates must show, then, that the philosopher is just and that it is he, not the poet, who is the one able to treat of political things respon? sibly. This is not easy to do since it would appear that the philosopher calls into question the natural character of justice as a virtue and that his science of being has no special place for man in it. The Apology does not adequately accomplish this task, since it is a description of Soc? rates' life directed to a large, hostile audience composed of generally ignorant jurors sworn to uphold the defective laws of Athens. The Republic, on the other hand, is a leisurely discussion among cultivated, friendly men. The Apology, in which Socrates defends himself against the charge of injustice, makes no attempt to define justice: his accusers mean by an unjust man one who breaks the laws; and Socrates' justice is surely not that of a law-abiding man. Only the Republic makes the attempt to define justice and elaborate the science which can give ground to such a definition. In it, Socrates-who had argued in the Apology that his only know]edge was ignorance and who had thus ap? parently admitted his incompetence in political things-presents a teach? ing about the nature of things political. That teaching culminates in the famous dedaration that ..un]ess philosophers rule as kings, or those now caned kings and chiefs gen? uine]y and adequate]y philosophize . . . there is no rest from i11s for the cities ... nor, I think, for human kind "This means that there is a perfect harmony between philosophy and the city, science and so? ciety. Socrates has reformed philosophy so that it is now the one thing most needful for the city; and the philosopher is its greatest benefactor. We are, however, likely to be misled by this