much. And, further, when each holds some ruling office, even if the just man suffers no other penalty, it is his lot to see his domestic affairs deteriorate from neglect, while he gets no ad? vantage from the public store, thanks to his being just; in addition to this, he incurs the ill will of his relatives and his acquaintances when he is unwilling to serve them against what is just. The unjust man's sit? uation is the opposite in all of these respects. I am speaking of the man I just now spoke of, the one who is able to get the bette:r37 in a big 34, way. Consider him, if you want to judge how much more to his private advantage the unjust is than the just. You will learn most easily of all if 344 a b C d e :45 Cl b you tum to the most perfect injustice, which makes the one who does injustice most happy, and those who suffer it and who would not be willing to do injustice, most wretched. And that is tyranny, which by stealth and force takes away what belongs to others, both what is sacred and profane, private and public, not bit by bit, but all at once. When someone does some part of this injustice and doesn't get away with it, he is punished and endures the greatest reproaches-temple robbers, kidnappers, housebreakers,38 defrauders, and thieves are what they call those partially unjust men who do such evil deeds. But when some? one, in addition to the money of the citizens, kidnaps and enslaves them too, instead of these shameful names, he gets called happy and blessed, not only by the citizens but also by whomever else hears that he has done injustice entire. For it is not because they fear doing unjust deeds, but because they fear suffering them, that those who blame in? justice do so. So, Socrates, injustice, when it comes into being on a sufficient scale, is mightier, freer, and more masterful than justice; and, as I have said from th beginning, the just is the advantage of the stronger, and the unjust is what is profitable and advantageous for oneself." When Thrasymachus had said this; he had it in mind to go away, just like a bathman,39 after having poured a great shower of speech into our ears all at once. But those present didn't let him and forced him to stay put and present an argument for what had been said. And I, too, on my own begged him and said: "Thrasymachus, you demonic man, do you toss in such an ar? gument, and have it in mind to go away before teaching us adequately or finding out whether it is so or not? Or do you suppose you are trying to determine a small matter and not a course of life on the basis of which each of us would have the most profitable ex? istence?" "What? Do I suppose it