of day, if one should be conceived, and, if one should force its way, to deal with it on the understanding that there's to be no rearing for such a child." "That is certainly a sensible statement," he said. "But how will they distinguish one another's fathers and daughters and the others you just mentioned?"20 "Not at all," I said. "But of all the children born in the tenth month, and in the seventh, fy0m the day a man becomes a bridegroom, he will call the males sons and the females daughters; and they will call him father; and in the same way, he will call their offspring grandchil? dren, and they in their tum will call his group grandfathers and grandmothers; and those who were born at the same time their mothers and fathers were procreating they will call sisters and brothers. Thus, as we were just saying, they won't touch one another. The law will grant that brothers and sisters live together if the lot falls out that way and the Pythia concurs."21 "Quite right," he said. "So, Glaucon, the community of women and children for the guardians of your city is of this kind. That it is both consistent with the rest of the regime and by far best, must next be assured by the argu? ment. Or what shall we do?" "That, by Zeus," he said. "Isn't the first step toward agreement for us to ask ourselves what we can say is the greatest good in the organization of a city-that good aiming at which the legislator must set down the laws-and what the greatest evil; and then to consider whether what we have just described har? monizes with the track of the good for us. and not with that of the evil?" "By all means," he said. "Have we any greater evil for a city than what splits it and makes it many instead of one? Or a greater good than what binds it together and makes it one?" "No, we don't." "Doesn't the community of pleasure and pain bind it togeth? er, when to the greatest extent possible all the citizens alike rejoice and are pained at the same comings into being and perishings?" "That's entirely certain," he said. "But the privacy of such things dissolves it, when some are over? whelmed and others overjoyed by the same things happening to the city and those within the city?" "Of course." "Doesn't that sort of thing happen when they don't utter such phrases as 'my own' and 'not my own' at the same time in the city, and similarly with respect to 'somebody else's'?" "Entirely so." "Is, then, that city in which most say 'my own' and 'not my own' about the same thing, and in the same way, the best governed city?" "By far." ''Then is that city best governed which is most like a single human being? For example, when one of us wounds a finger, presumably the entire community-that community tying the