of Necessity, Fates-Lachesis, Clotho, and Atropos16-clad in white with wreaths on their heads, they sing to the Sirens' harmony, Lachesis of what has been, Clotho of what is, and Atropos of what is going to be. And Clotho puts her right hand to the outer revolution of the spindle and joins in turning it, ceasing from time to time; and Atropos with her left hand does the same to the inner ones; but Lachesis puts one hand to one and the other hand to the other, each in tum. d. "Now, when they arrived, they had to go straight to Lachesis. A certain spokesman first marshaled them at regular distances from each other; then, he took lots and patterns of lives from Lachesis' lap, and went up to a high platfonn and said, 'This is the speech of Necessity's maiden daughter, Lachesis. Souls that live a day, this is the beginning of another death bringing cycle for the mortal race. A demon will not e. select you, but you will choose a demon. Let him who gets the first lot make the first choice of a life to which he will be bound by necessity. Virtue is without a master; as he honors or dishonors her, each will have more or less of her. The blame belongs to him who chooses; god is blameless.' "When he had said this, he cast the lots among them all, and each picked up the one that fell next to him-except for Er who wasn't per? mitted to do so. To the man who picked it up it was plain what number he had drawn. After this, in tum, he set the patterns of the lives on the [ .300] ground before them; there were far more than there were souls present. 618a There were all sorts; lives of all animals, and, in particular, all the varieties of human lives. There were tyrannies among them, some last- ing to the end, others ruined midway, ending both in poverty and exile and in beggary. And there were lives of men of repute-some for their forms and beauty and for strength in general as well as capacity in cont sts; others for their birth and the virtues of their ancestors-and b there were some for men without repute in these things; and the same was the case for women, too. An ordering of the soul was not in them, due to the necessity that a soul become different according to the life it chooses. But all other things were, mixed with each other and with wealth and poverty and with sickness and health, and also with the states intermediate to these. "Now here, my dear Glaucon, is the whole risk for a human being, as it seems. And on this account each of us must, to the neglect of other studies, above all see to it that he is a seeker and student of c that study by which he might be able to learn and