can somehow point out to him that there is no practice relevant to the government of a city that is peculiar to woman?" "Certainly." '"Come, now,' we'll say to him, 'answer. Is this what you meant? Did you distinguish between the man who has a good nature for a thing and another who has no nature for it on these grounds: the one learns something connected with that thing easily, the other with difficulty; the one, starting from slight learning, is able to carry discovery far for? ward in the field he has learned, while the other, having chanced on a lot of learning and practice, can't even preserve what he learned; and the bodily things give adequate service to the thought of the man with the good nature while they oppose the thought of the other man? Are there any other things than these by which you distinguished the man who has a good nature for each discipline from the one who hasn't?'" "No one," he said, "will assert that there are others." "Do you know of anything that is practiced by human beings in which the class of men doesn't excel that of women in al1 these respects? Or 454 C d e 455 a b C 455 C d e 456a b shall we draw it out at length by speaking of weaving and the care of baked and boiled dishes-just those activities on which the reputation of the female sex is based and where its defeat is most ridiculous of all?" "As you say," he said, "it's true that the one class is quite dom? inated in virtually everything, so to speak, by the other. However, many women are better than many men in many things. But, as a whole, it is as you say." "Therefore, my friend, there is no practice of a city's governors which belongs to woman because she's woman, or to man because he's man; but the natures are scattered alike among both animals; and woman participates according to nature in all practices, and man in all, but in all of them woman is weaker than man." "Certainly," "So, shall we assign all of them to men and none to women?" "How could we?" "For I suppose there is, as we shall assert, one woman apt at medicine and another not, one woman apt at music and another un? musical by nature." "Of course." "And isn't there then also one apt at gymnastic and at war, and another unwarlike and no lover of gymnastic?" "I suppose so." "And what about this? Is there a lover of wisdom and a hater of wisdom? And one who is spirited and another without spirit?" "Yes, there are these too." "There is, therefore, one woman fit for guarding and another not. Or wasn't it a nature of this sort we also selected for the men fit for guarding?" "Certainly, that was it." "Men and women, therefore, also have the same nature with respect to guarding a