asserts that the possession of virtue assures victory; technical skill and chance play no role. This is an unwarranted assertion, as any experience of life will show. But it is not entirely implausible within the context of this city. It will soon become evident that these warriors will do little if any fighting outside the city, that the city will have little foreign policy, and that their function is much more to control the vices of the desiring or wage-earning class. Therefore the control of the warriors' predatary inclinations and the encouragement of their dedication to the common good is more important than their fighting skill. But, still, Socrates' whole treatment of the good city seems to neglect the problems in? volved in getting and keeping the things which make the good city possible. This neglect, however, is deliberate, and recognizing it makes one aware of the problem of the good city and the good life-that is, that there is a tension between the activities necessary to preserve life and those necessary to live it well. The satisfaction of the body's de? mands, which is the pre-condition of living any kind of good life at all, can easily become an end in itself. Socrates directs his attention ex? clusively to the perfection of the soul, as though its demands were in perfect harmony with those of the body, for the difficulty posed by the body is made clear and precise only by acting as though it did not exist, or at least as though its demands never contradict those of a good city or philosophy. The discussion of gymnastic is in keeping with the neglect of the body which characterizes the entire Republic. But in this case the body is peculiarly difficult to neglect, and it would seem that here Socrates would have to admit that man is a dual being and discuss the relation of body and soul. However he continues to insist that his warriors are simple, as opposed to complex, beings. The cause of a healthy body is a healthy soul; and if a body does become diseased, nature must be allowed to take its course. In other words, we are asked to believe that the soul controls the body perfectly, that good souls cannot be joined to bad bodies and, at the same time, are told to forget the evidence to the contrary provided by sick men and the existence of an art of medicine which ministers to men's bodies and not their souls. Inevitably, then, since gymnastic has little to do in keeping men's bodies healthy, the discussion turns from a description of gymnastic in? to an attack on medicine which looks to the care of diseased bodies without regard to the health of the soul. Doctors, according to Socrates, are required in cities for the same reason as judges-because there is a failure of moderation. When men desire too much, they take from others and must appear before a judge; the same inflamed desire