them into bad reputation while they are still alive. Thus, those penalties that Glaucon described e as the lot of the just men who are reputed to be unjust, these people say are the Jot of the unjust. But they have nothing else to say. This then is the praise and blame attached to each. "Furthermore, Socrates, consider still another form of speeches about justice and injustice, spoken in prose11 and by poets. With one tongue they all chant that moderation and justice are fair, but hard and 364 a full of drudgery, while intemperance and injustice are sweet and easy to acquire, and shameful only by opinion and law. They say that the un- just is for the most part more profitable than the just; and both in public and in private, they are ready and willing to call happy and to honor bad men who have wealth or some other power and to dishonor and overlook those who happen in some way to be weak or poor, al- though they agree they are better than the others. But the most won- b derful of all these speeches are those they give about gods and virtue. They say that the gods, after all, allot misfortune and a bad life to many good men too, and an opposite fate to opposite men. Beggar priests and diviners go to the doors of the rich man and persuade him that the gods have provided them with a power based on sacrifices and incantations. If he himself, or his ancestors, has committed some injustice, they can heal it with pleasures and feasts; and if he wishes to ruin some enemies at small expense, he will injure just and unjust alike with certain evoca- c tions and spells. They, as they say, persuade the gods to serve them. And they bring the poets forward as witnesses to al] these arguments about vice, and they present it as easy, saying that, Vice in abundance is easy to choose, d The road is smooth and it lies very near, While the gods have set sweat before virtue, And it is a long road, rough and steep.12 And they use Homer as a witness to the perversion of the gods by hu? man beings because he too said: The very gods can be moved by prayer too. e With sacrifices and gentle vows and 364 e The odor of burnt and drink offerings, human beings turn them aside with their prayers, When someone has transgressed and made a mistake.13 And they present a babble of books by Musaeus and Orpheus, off? spring of the Moon and the Muses, as they say, according to whose prescriptions they busy themselves about their sacrifices. They per? suade not only private persons, but cities as well, that through sacrifices and pleasurable games there are, after all, de1iverances and purifica- 365 a tions from unjust deeds for those still living. And there are also rites for those who are dead. These, which