more kinship than appears on the surface. (Adeimantus finally persuades Socrates to stay in the Piraeus by the promise of another innovation: a torch race on horse? back. The conversation, also an innovation and itself innovating, takes the place of that torch race and is parallel to it. Socrates has a taste for newness which is antithetical to the best political orders and which he shares with the democracy. The difference between Athenian and Socratic tastes, however, can be measured by the difference be? tween a torch race in honor of the goddess and a friendly discussion about justice.) Socrates' piety brings him down to the Piraeus with Glaucon and puts him into the situation where he must discuss the city, and that piety disposes him to care for the city. But his piety is somewhat lax; it is open to change and mixed with curiosity. He does not tell us the result of his prayers, but his observations led him to the recognition that the Athenian procession was no better than that of the Thracians. Socrates' theory stands above the enthusiasm of national pride and is somehow beyond mere citizenship. His piety belongs to the city; his thought does not. Polemarchus sees him hurrying off and orders a slave to order him to stay. This little scene prefigures the three-class structure of the good regime developed in the Republic and outlines the whole political problem. Power is in the hands of the gentlemen, who are not philos? ophers. They can command the services of the many, and their strength is such that they always hold the philosophers in their grasp. Therefore it is part of the philosophers' self-interest to come to terms with them. The question becomes: to what extent can the philosophers influence the gentlemen? It is this crucial middle class which is the primary object of the Republic and the education prescribed in it. In this episode, the first fact is brute force, leading to the recognition that no matter how reasonable one may be, everything depends upon the peo? ple's willingness to listen. There is a confrontation here between wisdom, as represented by Socrates, and power, as represented by Polemarchus andhis friends. At first the opposition of the two principles is com? plete, but Adeimantus and Polemarchus try to make Socrates choose to remain by offering him pleasant occupations if he does so. Glaucon ac? cepts on behalf of his friend, and Socrates grudgingly gives in to thejjztt accompli. Hence wisdom and power reach a compromise, and a min? fature--;ommunity is formed. This accomplished, they take a vote and ratify their decision, and a new principle of rule emerges: consent. It is a mixture of powerless wisdom and unwise power. All political life will be founded on such compromises, more or less satisfactory, until the means can be discovered fo permit the absolute rule of wisdom. Since he is forced to become a member of this community, Socrates soon establishes himself as its ruler by overcoming