that a silver child will be born from a golden parent, a golden child from a silver parent, and similarly all the others from each other. Hence the god commands the rulers first and foremost to be of nothing such good guardians and to keep over nothing so careful a watch as the children, seeing which of these metals is mixed in their souls. And, if a child of theirs should be born with an admixture of bronze or iron, by no manner of means are they to take pity on it, but shall assign the proper value to its nature and thrust it out among the craftsmen or the farmers; and, again, if from these men one should naturally grow who has an admixture of gold or silver, they will honor such ones and lead them up, some to the guardian group, others to the auxiliary, believ? ing that there is an oracle that the city will be destroyed when an iron or bronze man is its guardian.' So, have you some device for per? suading them of this tale?" "None at all," he said, "for these men themselves; however for their sons and their successors and the rest of the human beings who come afterwards." "Well, even that would be good for making them care more for the city and one another," I said. "For I understand pretty much what you mean. "Well, then, this will go where the report67 of men shall lead it. And when we have armed these earth-born men, let's bring them forth led by the rulers. When they've come, let them look out for the fairest place in the city for a military camp, from which they could most con? trol those within, if anyone were not willing to obey the laws, and ward off those from without, if an enemy, like a wolf, should attack the flock. When they have made the camp and sacrificed to whom they ought, let them make sleeping places. Or how should it be?" "Like that," he said. "Won't these places be such as to provide adequate shelter in both winter and summer?" "Yes, of course," he said. "For you seem to me to mean houses." "Yes," I said, "those of soldiers, not moneymakers." "How," he said, "do you mean to distinguish the one from the other?" "I shall try to tell you," I said. "Surely the most terrible and shameful thing of all is for shepherds to rear dogs as auxiliaries for the flocks in such a way that due to licentiousness, hunger or some other bad habit, they themselves undertake to do harm to the sheep and in? stead of dogs become like wolves." "Terrible," he said. "Of course." "Mustn't we in every way guard against the auxiliaries doing any? thing like that to the citizens, since they are stronger than they, becom? ing like savage masters instead of well-meaning allies?" "Yes," he said, "we must." "And wouldn't they have been provided with the greatest