then both age, Socrates, and youth alike turn out to be hard for that sort." Then I was fu)l of wonder at what he said and, wanting him to say still more, I stirred him up, saying: "Cephalus, when you .say these things, I suppose that the many16 do not accept them from you, but believe rather that it is not due to character that you bear old age so easily but due to possessing great substance. They say that for the rich there are many consolations." "What you say is true," he said. "They do not accept them. And they do have something there, but not, however, quite as much as they think; rather, the saying of ThemistocJes holds good. When a Seriphian abused him-saying that he was i)]ustrious not thanks to himself but thanks to the city-he answered that if he himself had been a Seriphian he wou]d not have made a name, nor wou]d that man have inade one 328 C 329a b C d e 330a 330 a had he been an Athenian. And the same argument also holds good for those who are not wealthy and bear old age with difficulty: the decent man would not bear old age with poverty very easily, nor would the one who is not a decent sort ever be content with himself even if he were wealthy." "Cephalus," I said, "did you inherit or did you earn most of what you possess?" b "What do you mean, earned, Socrates!" he said. "As a money- maker, I was a sort of mean between my grandfather and my father. For my grandfather, whose namesake I am, inherited pretty nearly as much substance as I now possess, and he increased it many times over. Lysanias, my father, used it to a point where it was still less than it is now. I am satisfied if I leave not less, but rather a bit more than I inherited, to my sons here." "The reason I asked, you see," I said, "is that to me you didn't c seem overly fond of money. For the most part, those who do not make money themselves are that way. Those who do make it are twice as at? tached to it as the others. For just as poets are fond of their poems and fathers of their children, so money-makers too are serious about money-as their own product; and they also are serious about it for the same reason other men are-for its use. They are, therefore, hard even to be with because they are willing to praise nothing but wealth." "What you say is true," he said. d. "Indeed it is," I said. "But tell me something more. What do you suppose is the greatest good that you have enjoyed from possessing great wealth?" "What I say wouldn't persuade many perhaps. For know well, Socrates," he said, "that when a man comes near to the realiza? tion that he will be making an end, fear