fallen into the fire of being under 569 c the mastery of slaves; in the place of that great and unseasonable free- dom they have put on the dress of the harshest and bitterest enslave- ment to slaves." "That's exactly what happens," he said. "Well then," I said, "wouldn,t we be speaking appropriately if we asserted that we have given an adequate presentation of how a tyranny is transformed out of a democracy, and what it is like when it has come into being?" "Most certainly," he said, "it was adequate." BOOK IX "Well," I said, "the tyrannic man himself remains to be consid? ered-how he is transformed out of the democratic man, and, once come into being, what sort of man he is and how he lives, wretchedly or blessedly." "Yes," he said, "he is the one who still remains." "Do you know," I said, "what I still miss?" "What?" "In my opinion we haven't adequately distinguished the kinds and number of the desires. And with this lacking, the investigation we are making will be less clear." "Isn't it," he said, "still a fine time to do so?" "Most certainly. And just consider that aspect of them I wish to observe. It's this. Of the unnecessary pleasures and desires, there are, in my opinion, some that are hostile to law and that probably come to be in everyone; but, when checked by the laws and the better desires, with the help of argument, in some human beings they are entire]y gotten rid of or only a few weak ones are left, while in others stronger and more numerous ones remain." "Which ones do you mean?" he said. "Those," I said, "that wake up in sleep when the rest of the soul-all that belongs to the calculating, tame, and ruling part of it-slumbers, while the beastly and wild part, gorged with food or 571. a b C 57] C d e 572 a b C drink, is skittish and, pushing sleep away, seeks to go and satisfy its dispositions. You know that in such a state it dares to do everything as though it were released from, and rid of, all shame and prudence. And it doesn't shrink from attempting intercourse, as it supposes, with a mother or with anyone else at all-human beings, gods, and beasts; or attempting any foul murder at all, and there is no food from which it abstains. And, in a word, it omits no act of folly or shamelessness." "What you say," he said, "is very true." "But, on the other hand, I can suppose a man who has a healthy and moderate relationship to himself and who goes to sleep only after he does the following: first, he awakens his calculating part and feasts it on fair arguments and considerations, coming to an understanding with himself; second, he feeds the desiring part in such a way that it is neither in want nor surfeited-in order that it will rest and not disturb the