if not easy, to channel eras for the benefit of the city; otherwise it would have to be left private, repressed and exhorted, but always a somewhat hostile beast, even when asleep. Now the rulers must tell many lies. And these lies must be bigger ones than the noble lie. The noble lie is more easily believable than these lies will be, inasmuch as the former concerns the origins and, after a period of time, there will be no witnesses of those origins left to gainsay it; inclination will be a con? stant witness against the lies of the rulers in sexual matters. So Socrates invokes the gods. Marriages, he says, are sacred. But in this arrange? ment of things, marriage means nothing more than a temporary sexual relationship, for there are no private homes, no private children, and the citizens may be expected to have many such marriages. Socrates ex? plains that the sacred is what is beneficial to the city. Appetizing and frequent sexual relations are to be the reward for excellence in public service; this will motivate the citizens to perform their responsibilities well and will insure that those who are of the greatest virtue will pro? duce the most children. In order to make this system work, the rulers will have many concerns not shared by rulers in less perfect cities; these concerns could well be the subject of comedy in these other cities. Just as erotic activity becomes a part of a man's public duty, so the offspring of the unions must become part of public property. The family is abolished, unless one considers the city as one family. The problem of Antigone cannot arise, for there can be no conflict between the family and the city. The intention of the noble lie is furthered: men are finally deprived of everything which they might love more than the city; all men are brothers. But the effect of this is to remove whatever is natural in the family and replace it with an entirely conventional base. A father, if he is anything, is the one who engenders the child. A father who did not do so would be a completely artificial entity, at best a substitute for the natural father. Law or convention must take the place of nature in order to insure the possibility of this city. Children are to transfer to the city what they would give to their parents. This, too, is completely unnatural. It is, however, not entirely without foundation in our understanding of human nature. If the family, which is surely somehow natural, remains the only object of loyalty, the clan or tribe can never be surpassed. To become either a member of a city-or a philosopher-one must break with one's primary loyalty. The bodily or blood ties are not the only thing that is natural to man; nor are they the most important thing. Men do not only Jove members of their family, but also those whom they believe to