a subject of ridicule for men like Aristophanes. But Socrates asserts that the comic poets are in this merely serving Greek convention, either be? cause they cannot themselves transcend convention, or because they are dependent on an audience of Greek men to whom they must appeal. Once Greeks, like the barbarians, were ashamed to see each other naked, but they were able to overcome that shame. A naked man would look ridiculous in a crowd of clothed men, to be sure, but why should men be clothed? In the gymnasium, public nakedness is no longer laughable. The Greeks showed that civilized men can be both moderate and unclad. Now they must go even further and make greater demands on their moderation. But does it make sense to say that it is only con? vention which prohibits the public association of naked men and wom? en? Nakedness is forbidden because it encourages licentiousness, be? cause civilized men need some mastery over their sexual appetites. Public nakedness is permissible where sexual desire is not likely to be aroused. by it. Men can be naked together because it is relatively easy to desexualize their relations with one another; but the preservation of the city requires the mutual attraction of men and women. The city can forbid homosexual relations, and shame and habit can make the very notion inconceivable to them. But it cannot forbid heterosexual rela? tions, and men and women could hardly be expected to be above at? traction to one another at any particular moment. Hence the purpose of the gymnasia would be subverted. Law would at the same time en? courage and forbid the mutual attraction of the sexes. The comic poets are not without justification; the sexual is necessary and must remain private. This is part of Socrates' attempt to politicize the erotic, to act as though it made no demands that cannot conform to the blic life of the city. Once more, Socrates "forgets" the body, and this forgetting is the precondition of the equality of women. As a political proposal, the public nakedness of men and women is nonsense. Shame is an essential component of the erotic relations between men and women. The need for overcoming shame becomes clear in relation to what Socrates con? siders to be another form of eros-intellectual or philosophic eros. Souls, in order to know, must strip away the conventions which cover their nature. Shame prevents them from doing this just as it prevents them from stripping their bodies. The comic poets, because of this shame, are able to ridicule what is natural and thus to discourage it. The comic poet is too much motivated by shame, for he is unaware of the kind of eros which justifies shamelessness. In other words, the com? ic poet will ridicule philosophy just as he will ridicule lasciviousness and do so because both conflict with conventional demands which are enforced by shame. This point is also made by Homer. When the angry Haephaestus binds his