didn't accept Thra? symachus' giving up but said, "Socrates, do you want to seem to have persuaded us, or truly to persuade us, that it is in every way better to be just than unjust?" "I would choose to persuade you truly," I said, "if it were up to me." "Well, then," he said, "you're not doing what you want. Tell me, is there in your opinion a kind of good that we would choose to have not because we desire its consequences, but because we delight in it for its own sake-such as enjoyment and all the pleasures which are harmless and leave no after effects other than the enjoyment in having them?" "In my opinion, at least," I said, "there is a good of this kind." "And what about this? ls there a kind we like both for its own sake and for what comes out of it, such as thinking and seeing and being healthy? Surely we delight in such things on both accounts." "Yes," I said. "And do you see a third form1 of good, which includes gymnastic exercise, medical treatment when sick as well as the practice of medicine, and the rest of the activities from which money is made? We 357 a b C 357 C d 358 a b C d e would say that they are drudgery but beneficial to us; and we would not choose to have them for themselves but for the sake of the wages and whatever else comes .out of them." "Yes, there is also this third," I said, "but what of it?" "In which of them," he said, "would you include justice?" "I, for my part, suppose," I said, "that it belongs in the finest kind, which the man who is going to be blessed should like both for itself and for what comes out of it." "Well, thafs not the opinion of the many," he said, "rather it seems to belong to the form of drudgery, which should be practiced for the sake of wages and the reputation that comes from opinion;2 but all by itself it should be fled from as something hard." "I know this is the popular opinion," I said, "and a while ago justice, taken as being such, was blamed by Thrasymachus while in? justice was praised. But I, as it seems, am a poor learner." "Come, now," he said, "hear me too, and see if you still have the same opinion. For it looks to me as though Thrasymachus, like a snake, has been charmed more quickly than he should have been; yet to my way of thinking there was still no proof about either. For I desire to hear what each is and what power it has all alone by itself when it is in the soul-dismissing its wages and its consequences. So I shall do it this way, if you too consent: fll restore Thrasymachus' argument, and first fll tell what kind of thing they say justice is and