they are youths and boys they ought to take up an education and philosophy suitable for youths, and take very good care of their bodies at the time when they are growing and bloom? ing into manhood, thus securing a helper for philosophy. And as they advance in age to the time when the soul begins to reach maturity, it ought to be subjected to a more intense gymnastic. And when strength begins to fail and they are beyond political and military duties, at this time they ought to be let loose to graze and do nothing else, except as a spare-time occupation-those who are going to live happily and, when they die, crown the life they have lived with a suitable lot in that other place." "In my opinion, you truly are speaking eagerly, Socrates," he said: "However, I suppose that the many among the hearers are even more eager to oppose you and won't be .persuaded at all, beginning with Thrasymachus." "Don't make a quarrel between Thrasymachus and me when we've just become friends, though we weren't even enemies before," I said. "We'll not give up our efforts before we either persuade him and the others, or give them some help in preparation for that other life when, born again, they meet with such arguments." "That's a short time you are speaking about," he said. "No time at all," I said, "if you compare it to the whole. However, it's no wonder that the many are not persuaded by these speeches. For they never saw any existing thing that matches the pres? ent speech. Far rather they have seen such phrases purposely 'balanced' with one another, not falling together spontaneously as they are now. But as for a man who to the limit of the possible is perfectly 'likened' to and 'balanced'21 with virtue, in deed and speech, and holds power in a city fit for him, they have never seen one or more. Or do you suppose so?" "No, I don't at all." "Nor, you blessed man, have they given an adequate hearing to fair and free speeches of the sort that strain with every nerve in quest of the truth for the sake of knowing and that 'nod a distant greeting'22 to the subtleties and contentious quibbles that strain toward nothing but opinion and contention in trials as well as in private groups." "No, they haven't," he said. "Well, it was on account of this," I said, "foreseeing it then, that we were frightened; but, all the same, compelled by the truth, we said that neither city nor regime will ever become perfect, nor yet will a man become perfect in the same way either, before some necessity chances to constrain those few philosophers who aren't vicious, those now called useless, to take charge of a city, whether they want to or not, and the city to obey;23 or a true erotic passion for true philoso- 499 , phy flows from some divine inspiration into the