all about 70. a the good will of the other Greeks. Rather we1l be afraid it would bea defilement to bring such things from our kin to a temple, unless, of course, the god should say otherwise." "Quite right," he said. "And what about ravaging the Greek countryside and burning houses? What sort of thing will your soldiers do to the enemies?" "I would be glad," he said, "to hear you present your opinion." "Well, in my opinion," I said, "they'll do neither of these things, b. but they'll take away the year's harvest; and do you want me to tell you why?" "Certainly." "It appears to me that just as two different names are used, war and faction, so two things also exist and the names apply to differences in these two. The two things I mean are, on the one hand, what is one's own and akin, and what is alien, and foreign, on the other. Now the name faction is applied to the hatred of one's own, war to the hatred of the alien." "What you're saying," he said, "is certainly not off the point." b. "Now see whether what I say next is also to the point. I assert that the Greek stock is with respect to itself its own and akin, with respect to the barbaric, foreign and alien." "Yes," he said, "that is fine." "Then when Greeks fight with barbarians and barbarians with Greeks, we1l assert they are at war and are enemies32 by nature, and this hatred must be called war; while when Greeks do any such thing to Greeks, we'll say that they are by nature friends, but in this case Greece is sick and factious, and this kind of hatred must be called b. faction." "I, for one," he said, "agree to consider it in that way." "Now observe," I said, "in what is nowadays understood to be faction, that wherever such a thing occurs and a city is split, if each side wastes the fields and burns the houses of the others, it_seems that the faction is a wicked thing and that the members of neither side are lovers of their city. For, otherwise, they would never have dared to ravage their nurse and mother. But it seems to be moderate for the vic- b. tors to take away the harvest of the vanquished, and to have the frame of mind of men who will be reconciled and not always be at war." "This frame of mind," he said, "belongs to far tamer men than the, other." "Now what about this?" I said. "Won't the city you are founding be Greek?" "It must be," he said. "Then won't they be good and tame?" "Very much so." "And won't they be lovers of the Greeks? Won't they consider Greece their own and hold the. common holy places along with the other Greeks?" "Very much so." "Won't they consider differences with Greeks-their kin-to be faction and not even use the name war?"