b C d e 367 a 367 a b C d e 368a "This, Socrates, and perhaps yet more than this, would Thrasyma? chus and possibly someone else say about justice and injustice, vulgarly turning their powers upside down, in my opinion at least. But I-for I need hide nothing from you-out of my desire to hear the opposite from you, speak as vehemently as I can. Now, don't only show us by the argument that justice is stronger20 than injustice, but show what each in itself does to the man who has it that makes the one bad and the other good. And take away the reputations, as Glaucon told you to. For if you don't take the true reputation from each and attach the false one to it, we'll say that you aren't praising the just but the seeming, nor blaming being unjust but the seeming; and that you're exhorting one to be unjust and to get away with it; and that you agree with Thrasyma? chus that the just is someone else's good, the advantage of the stronger, while the unjust is one's own advantage and profitable, but disadvan? tageous to the weaker. Now, since you agreed that justice is among the greatest goods-those that are worth having for what comes from them but much more for themselves, such as seeing, hearing, thinking, and, -of course, being healthy and all the other goods that are fruitful by their own nature and not by opinion-praise this aspect of justice. Of what profit is justice in itself to the man who possesses it, and what harm does injustice do? Leave wages and reputations to others to praise. I could endure other men's praising justice and blaming injustice in this way, extolling and abusing them in te1ms of reputations and wages; but from you I couldn't, unless you were to order me to, because you have spent your whole life considering nothing other than this. So, don't only show us by the argument that justice is stronger than injustice, but show what each in itself does to the man who has it-whether it is noticed by gods and human beings or not-that makes the one good and the other bad." I listened, and although I had always been full of wonder at the nature of Glaucon and Adeimantus, at this time I was particularly delighted and said, "That wasn't a bad beginning, you children of that man,21 that Glaucon's lover made to his poem about your distinguish? ing yourselves in the battle at Megara: Sons of Ariston,22 divine offspring of a famous man. That, my friends, in my opinion is good. For something quite divine must certainly have happened to you, if. you are remaining unper? suaded that injustice is better than justice when you are able to speak b. that way on its behalf. Now you truly don't seem to me to be being per? suaded. I infer it from the rest of your character, since, on the basis