are to become like the relations of Greek cities. Thus there is a general reduction of hostility along the line (without expectation that it can be done away with altogether), and even the barbarians profit from the change. In this way, all men are brought closer to one another by extending the senti? ments connected with love of one's own to all of humanity: fellow citizens are to be brothers, Greeks are to be fellow citizens, and bar? barians are to be Greeks. At this point Socrates accepts the Greek, or conventional, distinction between Greek and barbarian. One should not, however, assume that he is limited by this horizon; he is speaking to Glaucon who is subject to such limitations. Later, when Glaucon has learned more, Socrates asserts that this good city can be either Greek or barbarian. This discussion of the relation among cities mixes conven? tion with nature in the intention of bringing men closer together and removing the obstacles which prevent the recognition of a common hu- manity, without at the same time undermining the principles which make political life possible. The eager Glaucon finally insists that Socrates must stop trying to avoid the question. Socrates must tell whether the regime is possible. Glaucon, however, no longer means by possible what had earlier been meant. He wants to know how the regime will come into being; he is interested only in its actualization. He thus abandons the standard _which he set in his first speech about justice, that is, nature. What he wanted then was a proof that justice is good according to nature and not merely according to convention or human agreement; justice was to be shown to conduce to human happiness in the same way health does. This standard was maintained in the discussion of the desirability of assigning the same way of life to women as to men. By showing that women's natures are the same as men's and supporting this proof with examples of natural animal behavior, Glaucon and Socrates were satisfied that the proposal was possible and good. Now Glaucon only wants to know whether the city can exist without determining whether it is natural and hence good. At the end, he seems willing to accept the city and its justice without having found out that thing which he him? self had insisted was decisive for accepting or rejecting the city. And it is clear that the community of women and children, if it were to exist, would not be a product of nature but of art; it would be a triumph of art over nature. Glaucon's desire to see his city come into being has caused him to forget to ask whether it is good for man or not. The lesson of this change in the meaning of possibility would seem to be that, though man exists by nature, the city does not and is hence of a lower status than man. Socrates, in a preamble to his discussion of the