ignorance in the soul of the man who has been lied to. For the lie in speeches is a kind of imitation of the affection in the soul, a phantom of it that comes into being after it, and not quite an unadulterated lie. Isn't that so?" "Most certainly." "So the real lie is hated not only by gods, but also by human beings." "Yes, in my opinion." "Now, what about the one in speeches? When and for whom is it also useful, so as not to deserve hatred? Isn't it useful against enemies, and, as a preventive, like a drug, for so-called friends when from madness or some folly they attempt to do something bad? And, in the d telling of the tales we were just now speaking about-those told be? cause we don't know where the truth about ancient things lies-liken? ing the lie to the truth as best we can, don't we also make it useful?" "It is very useful in such cases," he said. "Then in which of these cases is a lie usefu to the god? Would he lie in making likenesses because he doesn't know ancient things?" "That," he said, "would be ridiculous." "Then there is no lying poet in a god?" "Not in my opinion." "Would he lie because he's frightened of enemies?" Book II I 38le-383c ADEIMANTus/soCRATES "Far from it." "Because of the folly or madness of his intimates?" "None of the foolish or the mad is a friend of the gods," he said. "Then, there's nothing for the sake of which a god would lie?" "There is nothing." "Then the demonic55 and the divine are wholly free from lie." "Thaf s completely certain," he said. "Then the god is altogether simple and true in deed and speech, and he doesn't himself change or deceive others by illusions, speeches, or the sending of signs either in waking or dreaming." "Thaf show it looks to me too when you say it," he said. "Do you then agree," I said, "that this is the second model ac? cording to which speeches and poems about gods must be made: they are neither wizards who transform themselves, nor do they mislead us by Jies in speech or in deed?" "I do agree." "So, although we praise much in Homer, we'll not praise Zeus' sending the dream to Agamemnon, 56 nor Thetis' saying in Aeschylus that Apollo sang at her wedding, foretelling good things for her off? spring, Free from sickness and living long lives, Telling all that the friendship of the gods would do for my fortunes, He sang the paean, gladdening my spirit. And I expected Phoebus' divine mouth To be free oflie, full with the diviner's art. And he, he who sang, who was at this feast, who said this, he is the one who slew my son. When someone says such things about gods, we'll be harsh and not pro? vide a chorus;57 and we'll not let the teachers use them for the