son.15 e 389a For, my dear Adeimantus, if our young should seriously hear such things and not laugh scornfully at them as unworthy speeches, it's not very likely that any one of them would believe these things to be un? worthy of himself, a human being, and would reproach himself for them, if it should enter into his head to say or do any such thing. Rather, with neither shame nor endurance, he would chant many dirges and laments at the slightest sufferings." "What you say is very true," he said. "But that mustn't be, as the argument was just indicating to us. We must be persuaded by it until someone persuades us with another and finer one." "No, it mustn't be." "Further, they shouldn't be lovers of laughter either. For when a man Jets himself go and laughs mightily, he also seeks a mighty change to accompany his condition." "That's my opinion;' he said. "If, then, someone makes noteworthy human beings overpowered by laughter, it mustn't be accepted, far less if they are gods." "Indeed," he said, "that is far less acceptable." "So, we won't accept from Homer such things about the gods as, Unquenchable laughter rose among the immortal gods, When they saw Hephaestus hastening breathlessly through the halls.16 They mustn't be accepted according to your argument." "If you want to consider it mine," he said. "At any rate, it mustn't b. be accepted." Book III I 388b-389e SOCRATES/ADEIMANTIJ'S "Further, truth must be taken seriously too. For if what we were just saying was correct, and a lie is really useless to gods and useful to human beings as a form of remedy, ifs plain that anything of the sort must be assigned to doctors while private men17 must not put their hands to it." "Yes," he said, "it is plain." "Then, ifs appropriate for the rulers, if for anyone at all, to lie for the benefit of the city in cases involving enemies or citizens, while all the rest must not put their hands to anything of the sort. We'll say that for a private man to lie to such rulers is a fault the same as, and even greater than, for a sick man or a man in training not to tell the truth about the affections of his body to the doctor or the trainer, or for a man not to say to the pilot the things that are18 concerning the ship and the sailors, lying about how he himself or his fellow sailors are far? ing." "Very true," he said. "Then, if he19 catches anyone else in the city lying, Anyone of those who are craftsmen, Whether diviner or doctor of sickness or carpenter of wood,20 he'll punish him for introducing a practice as subversive and de? structive of a city as of a ship." "That is, at least," he said, "if deeds are to fulfill speech." "And what about this? Won't our youngsters need modera? tion?"21 "Of course." "Aren't these the most important