are more characteristic of every other kind of man than this ,, 443 a one. "Of every other kind, indeed," he said. "Isn't the cause of all this that, so far as ruling and being ruled are b concerned, each of the parts in him minds its own business?" "That and nothing else is the cause." "Are you still looking for justice to be something different from this power which produces such men and cities?" "No, by Zeus," he said. 'Tm not." "Then that dream of ours has reached its perfect fulfillment. 33 I mean our saying that we suspected that straight from the beginning of the city's founding, through some god, we probably hit upon an origin and model for justice." "That's entirely certain." "And this, Glaucon, turns out to be after all a kind of phantom of justice--that's also why it's helpful-the fact that the shoemaker by nature rightly practices shoemaking and does nothing else, and the carpenter practices carpentry, and so on for the rest." "It looks like it." "But in truth justice was, as it seems, something of this sort; however, not with respect to a man's minding his external business, but with respect to what is within, with respect to what truly concerns him and his own. He doesn't let each part in him mind other people's business or the three classes in the soul meddle with each other, but really sets his own house in good order and rules himself; he ar? ranges himself, becomes his own friend, and harmonizes the three parts, exactly like three notes in a harmonic scale, lowest, highest and middle. And if there are some other parts in between, he binds them together and becomes entirely one from many, moderate and harmonized. Then, and only then, he acts, if he does act in some way-either conceI:ning the acquisition of money, or the care of the body, or something political, or concerning private contracts. In all these actions he believes and names a just and fine action one that preserves and helps to produce this condition, and wisdom the knowledge that supervises34 this action; while he believes and names an unjust action one that undoes this condition," and lack of learning, in its turn, the opinion that supervises this action." "Socrates," he said, "what you say is entirely true." "All right," I said. "If we should assert that we have found the just man and city and what justice really is in them, I don't suppose we'd seem to be telling an utter lie." C d e 444 a GLAUCON/SOCRATES T H E R E P U B LI C 444a b C "By Zeus, no indeed," he said. "Shall we assert it then?" "Let's assert it." "So be it," I said. "After that, I suppose injustice must be con. sidered." "Plainly." "Mustn't it, in its tum, be a certain faction among those three-a meddling, interference, and rebellion of a part of the soul against the whole? The purpose of