and sil? ver, because they possess storehouses and domestic treasuries where they can deposit and hide them; and they will have walls around their houses, exactly like private nests, where they can make lavish expen- 547 C d e 548 a ditures on women and whomever else they might wish." b "Very true," he said. "Then they wi1l also be stingy with money because they honor it and don't acquire it openly; but, pushed on by desire, they will love to spend other people's money; and they will harvest pleasures stealthily, running away from the la'\\7 like boys from a father. This is because they weren't educated by persuasion but by force-the result of neglect of the true Muse accompanied by arguments and philosphy while giving more distinguished honor to gymnastic than music." c "You certainly speak of a reigme," he said, "which is a mixture of bad and good." "Yes, it is mixed," I said, "but due to the dominance of 548 C d e 549 a b C spiritedness one thing alone is most distinctive in it: love of victories and of honors." "Very much so," he said. "Then," I said, "this is the way this regime would come into being and what it would be like-given the fact that we are only outlining a regime's figure in speech and not working out its details precisely, since even the outline is sufficient for seeing the justest man and the unjustest one, and it is an impractically long job to go through all regimes and all dispositions and leave nothing out." "Right," he said. "Who, then, is the man corresponding to this regime? How did he come into being and what sort of man is he?" "I suppose," said Adeimantus, "that as far as love of victory goes, he'd be somewhere near to Glaucon here." "Perhaps in that," I said, "but in these other respects his nature does not, in my opinion, correspond to Glaucon's." "Which respects?" "He must be more stubborn," I said, "and somewhat less apt at music although he loves it, and must be a lover of hearing although he's by no means skilled in rhetoric. With slaves such a man would be brutal, not merely despising slaves as the adequately educated man does. But with freemen he would be tame and to rulers most obedient. He is a lover of ruling and of honor, not basing his claim to rule on speaking or anything of the sort, but on warlike deeds and everything connected with war; he is a lover of gymnastic and the hunt." "Yes," he said, "that is the disposition belonging to this regime." "Wouldn't such a man," I said, "when he is young also despise money, but as he grows older take ever more delight in participating in the money-lover's nature and not be pure in his attachment to virtue, having been abandoned by the best guardian?" "What's that?" Adeimantus said. "Argument mixed with music," I said. "It alone, when it is