kind he sought out in Athens. In all other cities Soc? rates must be morally suspect as a poor husband and father. Socrates has the strength to endure this opprobrium; if he were seriously concerned about it, he would fetter his mind in trying to avoid it. In the passage under consideration, then, we see the conditions of philosophy and what must be sacrificed to it. As yet the citizens of this city have no sufficient rea? son to make these sacrifices. But if philosophy is desirab.le, so are these ef? forts to conquer everything that attaches one to particularity.Socrates can contemplate going naked where others go clothed; he is not afraid of ridi? cule. He can also contemplate sexual intercourse where others are stricken with terror; he is not afraid of moral indignation. In other words, he treats the comic seriously and the tragic lightly. He can smile where others cry and remain earnest where others laugh. In the Symposium be says that the true poet must be both tragedian and comedian, implying that the true poet is the philosopher. Here he shows that the man who has both gifts must use them to oppose the ways the vulgar tragic and com? ic poets use them; he must treat the tragic lightly and the comic seriously, hence reversing their usual roles. The man who is able to do this is already a philosopher. In both cases, it is shame which must be opposed; for shame is the wall built by convention which stands be? tween the mind and the light. The ordinary poetry appeals to that shame, accepting its edicts as law, while philosophic poetry overcomes it. Shame, in both the case of nakedness and that of incest, is spiritedness' means of controlling eras for the sake of preservation and the city. The effect of that shame is pervasive and subtle, making the thinkable appear unthinkable. The mind requires heroic efforts in order to become aware of the distortions of its vision caused by shame and to overcome them. . Having discussed the community of women and children and its advantages, Socrates and Glaucon turn to the question of the possibility of this regime. But Socrates, who seems anxious to avoid this question, turns the discussion to the foreign relations of their completed city, particularly to the way in which it will fight wars. The changes within the city bring about changes in the character of inter-city relations. In this discussion, although Socrates provides some satisfactions to be derived from war for Glaucon's erotic and warlike temper, the general intention is to temper and humanize war. To this end, Socrates pro? poses a pan-Hellenic policy of hostility toward the barbarians. As the relations among the members of the city are to be like the relations among the members of a family, so the relations among the Greek cities are to become like the relations which prevail among the parties in a city and the relations between Greeks and non-Greeks