my voice to yours," he said. "Therefore we have settled on this one," I said. "And let's con- sider whether the study adjpining this one is in any way suitable." "What is it?" he said. "Or do you mean geometry?" "That's exactly it," I said. "As much of it as applies to the business of war is plainly suitable," he said. "In pitching camp, assaulting places, gathering the army together and drawing it up in line, and in all other maneuvers ar- 525 d e 526 a b C d 526d e 527 a b mies make in the battle itself and on marches, it would make quitea difference to a man whether he were skilled in geometry or not." "However," I said, "for such things only a small portion of geometry-as of calculation-would suffice. It must be considered whether its greater and more advanced part tends to make it easier to make out the idea of the good. And we say that this tendency is possessed by everything that compels the soul to turn around to the region inhabited by the happiest part of what is, which is what the soul must by all means see." "What you say is right," he said. "Then if geometry compels one to look at being, it is suitable; if at becoming, it is not suitable." "'That is what we affirm." "Well, then," I said, "none of those who have even a little ex? perience with geometry will dispute it with us: this kind of knowledge is exactly the opposite of what is said about it in the arguments of those who take it up." "How?" he said. "In that they surely speak in a way that is as ridiculous as it is necessary. They speak as though they were men of action and were making all the arguments for the sake of action, uttering sounds like 'squaring,' 'applying,' 'adding,' and everything of the sort, whereas the whole study is surely pursued for the sake of knowing." "That's entirely certain," he said. "Mustn't we also come to an agreement about the following point?" "What?" "That it is for the sake of knowing what is always, and not at all for what is at any time coming into being and passing away." ."That may well be agreed," he said. "For geometrical knowing is of what is always." "Then, you noble man, it would draw the soul toward truth and be productive of philosophic understanding in directing upward what we now improperly direct downward." "It does so," he said, "to the greatest extent possible." c. "Then to the greatest extent possible," I said, "the men in your beautiful city13 must be enjoined in no way to abstain from geom? etry. For even its by-products aren't slight." "What are they?" he said. "What you said about war, of course," I said, "and, in addition, with respect to finer reception of all studies, we surely know there is a general and complete difference between the man who