my meaning," I said. "Then, what do you mean?" he said. "The ones that don't summon the intellect," I said, "are all those that don't at the same time go over to the opposite sensation. But the ones that do go over I class among those that summon the intellect, when the sensation doesn't reveal one thing any more than its opposite, regardless of whether the object strikes the senses from near or far off. But you will see my meaning more clearly this way: these, we say, would be three fingers-the smallest, the second, and the middle."11 "Certainly," he said. "Think of them while I'm speaking as if they were being seen up close. Now consider this about them for me." "What?" "Surely each of them looks equally like a finger, and in this respect it makes no difference whether it's seen in the middle or on the extremes, whether it's white or black, or whether it's thick or thin, or anything else of the sort. In all these things the soul of the many is not compelled to ask the intellect what a finger is. For the sight at no point indicates to the soul that the finger is at the same time the opposite of a finger." "No," he said, "it doesn't." "Then," I said, "it isn't likely that anything of the sort would be apt to summon or awaken the activity of intellect." "No, it's not likely." "Now what about this? Does the sight see their bigness and lit? tleness adequately, and does it make no difference to it whether a finger lies in the middle or on the extremes? And similarly with the touch, for thickness and thinness or softness and hardness? And do the other senses reveal such things without insufficiency? Or doesn't each of them do the following: first, the sense set over the hard is also com? pelled to be set over the soft; and it reports to the soul that the same thing is sensed by it as both hard and soft?" "So it does,""he said. 524, "Isn't it necessary," I said, "that in such cases the soul be at a loss as to what this sensation indicates by the hard, if it says that the same thing is also soft, and what the sensation of the light and of the heavy indicates by the light and heavy, if it indicates that the heavy is light and the light heavy?" "Yes, indeed," he said, "these are strange interpretations received by the soul and require further consideration." "Therefore," I said, "ifs likely that in such cases a soul, sum? moning calculation and intellect, first tries to determine whether each of the things reported to it is one or two." "Of course." "If it appears to be two, won't each of the two appear to be dif? ferent and to be one?" "Yes.'' "Then, if each is one and both two, the soul will think the two as separate. For it would not