city, if it is to be well governed, requires citizens whose desires are not too great and are well controlled; and it must possess some men who are willing to risk their lives in its defense. A philosopher's bodily needs must be minimal and his soul must be dar? ing. These are the simplest senses of moderation and courage and the role they play in a city and a philosopher. Glaucon, with his manly in? transigence, makes the most important contribution of the two in? terlocutors; he gives the conversation its power and its height. Glaucon cannot endure his brother's satisfaction with what he calls a city of sows and causes a new and luxurious city to be founded. But Adeimantus purges that luxurious city and makes it possible for its better potential to be realized. This first city is obviously impossible. It depends on an unfounded belief in nature's providential generosity, in a "hidden hand" which hannonizes private and public interest, a be1ief to which Adeimantus would like to subscribe. This city is also undesirable, as will soon be? come clear. The fact that Socrates says that it is the true city does not mean that he thinks it could come into being or that he would wish it to do so. Rather, by this assertion, he implies that the city really exists to serve the body and that this city, devoted to the satisfaction of the simplest desires, serves the body best. The emergence of other forms of desire complicates the city and brings misery to it. But that corruption is the condition of the growth of more perfect human beings. Perhaps Socrates' assertion that it is the true city is not in contradiction, but in agreement, with Glaucon's characterization of it as a city of sows. Glaucon rejects the first city because it does not appeal to his taste: he does not lixe the food. His manliness always leads him to make a direct assault on the good as he sees it. He has been promised a dinner which seems to have been postponed indefinitely. At the first mention of eating, he looks on the bill of fare with the eye of a hungry man who has a delicate palate and imagines how he would like to satisfy his hunger. He finds the simple city does not meet his gastro? nomic standards; in it food is only nourishment, only for keeping men alive and healthy. Merely to live and be healthy is the way of sows. Hu- man beings require more than life; they demand unnecessary refine? ments and pleasures. Desire causes him to sharpen his demands on the city. He may think his is only bodily hunger, but it is a spiritual hunger which will cause him to transcend this city and lead him toward another kind of fulfillment. He is getting an unwilling lesson in austerity, which will aid him in sublimating his hunger. His wishes are always contradictory, for he always mistakes all of