both in good and fair fashion, or it mustn't be given a share in the most precise education, in honor, or in rule." "Right," he said. "Don't you suppose this will be rare?" "Of course." "Then it must be tested in the labors, fears, and pleasures we mentioned then; and moreover-what we passed over then but men? tion now-it must also be given gymnastic in many studies to see whether it will be able to bear the greatest studies, or whether it will tum out to be a coward, as some tum out to be cowards in the other things." "Well, that's surely the proper way to investigate it," he said. "But exactly what kinds of studies do you mean by the greatest?" "You, of course, remember," I said, "that by separating out three forms in the soul we figured out what justice, moderation, courage, and wisdom each is." "If I didn't remember," he said, "it would be just for me not to hear the rest." "And also what was said before that?" 503 b C d e 504 a 504 a b C d e 505 a "What was it?" "We were, I believe, saying that in order to get the finest possible look at these things another and longer road around would be required, and to the man who took it they would become evident, but that proofs on a level with what had been said up to then could be tacked on. And you all said that that would suffice. And so, you see, the statements made at that time were, as it looks to me, deficient in precision. If they were satisfactory to you, only you can tell." "They were satisfactory to me, within measure," he said. "And it looks as though they were for the others too." "My friend," I said, "a measure in such things, which in any way falls short of that which is, is no measure at all. For nothing incomplete is the measure of anything. But certain men are sometimes of the ooinion that this question has already been adequately disposed of and that there is no need to seek further." "Easygoingness," he said, "causes quite a throng of men to have this experience." "Well," I said, "it's an experience a guardian of a city and of laws hardly needs." "That's likely," he said. "Well then, my comrade," I said, "such a man must go the longer way around and labor no less at study than at gymnastic, or else, as we were just saying, he'll never come to the end of the greatest and most fitting study." "So these aren't the greatest," he said, "but there is something yet greater than justice and the other things we went through?" "There is both something greater," I said, "and also even for these very virtues it won't do to look at a sketch, as we did a while ago, but their most perfect elaboration must not be stinted. Or isn't it ridiculous