whole behaves like that, you won't praise it either. Or isn't it your impression that the very same thing these men do is done by all cities with bad regimes, which warn the citizens they must not disturb the city's constitution as a whole, under pain of death for the man who does; while the man who serves them most agreeably, with the regime as it is, and gratifies them by flattering them and knowing their wishes beforehand and being clever at fulfilling them, will on that account be the good man and the one wise in important things and be honored by them?" "They certainly do," he said, "seem to me to act in the same way, and I don't praise them in any respect whatsoever." "And what about the men who are willing and eager to serve such cities? Don't you admire their courage and facility?" "I do," he said, "except for those who are deceived by them and suppose they are truly statesmen because they are praised by the many." "How do you mean?" I said. "Don't you sympathize with these men? Or do you suppose it's possible for a man who doesn't know how to take measurements not to believe it when many other men like him say he's a six-footer?" "No," he said, "that I don't suppose." "Then don't be harsh. For such men are surely the most charming of all, setting down laws like the ones we described a moment ago and correcting them, always thinking they'll find some limit to wrongdoing in contracts and the other things I was just talking about, ignorant that they are really cutting off the heads of a Hydra." "Well," he said, "they do nothing but that." "I, for one," I said, "therefore thought that the true lawgiver wouldn't have to bother with that class of things10 in the laws and the regime, either in a city with a bad regime or in one with a good regime-in the one case because it's useless and accomplishes nothing; in the other, partly because anyone at all could find some of these things, and partly because the rest follow of themselves from the prac? tices already established." "Then what," he said, "might still remain for our legislation?" And I said, ''For us, nothing. However for the Apollo at Del? phill there remain the greatest, fairest, and first of the laws which are given." . "What are they about?" he said. "Foundings of temples, sacrifices, and whatever else belongs to the care of gods, demons, and heroes; and further, burial of the dead and all the services needed to keep those in that other place gracious. For such things as these we neither know ourselves, nor in founding a city shall we be persuaded by any other man, if we are intelligent, nor shall we make use of any interpreter other than the ancestral one. Now this god is doubtless the ancestral interpreter of such things for all hu? mans, and