right kind of love to love in a moderate and musical way what's orderly and fine?" "Quite so," he said. therri\ "Nothing that's mad or akin to licentiousness must approach the ' right kind of love?" "No, it mustn't." stead "Then this pleasure mustn't approach love, and lover and boyslee who love and are loved in the right way mustn't be partner to it?" life \ "By Zeus, no, Socrates," he said, "this pleasure certainly mustn't '; approach love." "So then, as it seems, you'll set down a law in the city that's being bata founded: that a lover may kiss, be with, and touch his boy as though he shat were a son, for fair purposes, if he persuades him; but, as for the rest, wati his intercourse with the one for whom he cares will be such that their for 1 relationship will never be reputed to go further than this. If not, he'll be subject to blame as unmusical and inexperienced in fair things." "Just so," he said. des1 "Does it look to you too as though our argument concerning music has reached an end?" I said. "At least it's ended where it ought to end. Surely musical matters should end in love matters that concern of, the fair." "I am in accord," he said. "Now, after music, the youths must be trained in gymnastic." "Of course." thi: he1 "In this too they must then receive a precise training from child- th{ d hood throughout life. And it would, I believe, be something like this; wo and you consider it too. It doesn't look to me as though it's a sound ev1 body that by its virtue makes the soul good, but the opposite: a good arc soul by its own virtue makes the body as good as it can be. How does it look to you?" "It looks that way to me too," he said. ev "If we gave adequate care to the intellect and turned over to it the it concern for the precise details about the body, while we, so as not to e talk too much, showed the way only to the models, would we be doing av the right thing?" "Most certainly." Si "Now we said that they must keep away from drunkenness. Surely it's more permissible for anyone, other than a guardian, to be drunk and not to know where on earth he is." m "It's ridiculous," he said, "if the guardian needs a guardian." "Now, what about food? For the men are champions in the greatest contest, aren't they?" [ 82] 403e "Then would the habit of the ordinary athletes be proper for 404 a them?" "Perhaps." "But," I said, "this is a sort of sleepy habit. and not a very steady one so far as health is concerned. Or don't you see that they sleep their life away; and if they depart a bit from their fixed way of life, these athletes get very critically ill?" "I do see