And they declare that what they have set down-their own advantage-is just for the ruled, and the man who departs from it they punish as a breaker of the law and a doer of unjust deeds. This, best of men, is what I mean: in every city the same thing is just, the advantage of the established ruling body. It surely is master; so the man who reasons rightly concludes that everywhere justice is the same thing, the advantage of the stronger." "Now," I said, "I understand what you mean. Whether it is true or not, I'll try to find out. Now, you too answer that the just is the ad? vantageous, Thrasymachus-although you forbade me to give that answer. Of course, 'for the stronger' is added on to it." "A small addition, perhaps," he said. "It isn't plain yet whether it's a big one. But it is plain that we must consider whether what you say is true. That must be considered, because, while I too agree that the just is something of advantage, you add to it and assert that it's the advantage of the stronger, and I don't know whether it's so." "Go ahead and consider," he said. "That's what I'm going to do," I said. "Now, tell me: don't you say though that it's also just to obey the rulers?" "I do." "Are the rulers in their several cities infallible, or are they such as to make mistakes too?" "By all means," he said, "they certainly are such as to make mistakes too." "When they put their hands to setting down laws, do they set some down correctly and some incorrectly?"' "I suppose so." "Is that law correct which sets down what is advantageous for themselves, and that one incorrect which sets down what is disad? vantageous?--Or, how do you mean it?" "As you say." "But whatever the rulers set down must be done by those who are ruled, and this is the just?'' "Of course." "Then, according to your argument, it's just to do not only what is advantageous for the stronger but also the opposite, what is disad? vantageous." "What do you mean?" he said. "What you mean, it seems to me. Let's consider it better. Wasn't it agreed that the rulers, when they command the ruled to do some? thing, sometimes completely mistake what is best for themselves, while it is just for the ruled to do whatever the rulers command? Weren't these things agreed upon?'' "I suppose so," he said. "Well, then," I said, "also suppose that you're agreed that it is just to do what is disadvantageous for those who are the rulers and the stronger, when the rulers unwillingly command what is bad for them? selves, and you assert it is just to do what they have commanded. In this case, most wise Thrasymachus, doesn't it necessarily follow that it is just for the others to do the opposite of what you say? For the weaker are commanded to do