in a sense carried on for Glaucon's benefit. Socrates' sue:.. cess at perplexing and attracting Glaucon was seen when Glaucon could not restrain himself from interrupting to express his wonder at Socrates' assertion that punishment is a fmm of wage for rulers. Both Socrates and Thrasymachus, for their various reasons, are interested in these two men-young, teachable, and ambitious. Among the best of the youth, Glaucon and Adeimantus are powerfully drawn to excel in the most honored pursuits, those in which they can most benefit both others and themselves. That is to say they are drawn to politics. And Thrasymachus offers them the means of success, both by the tools of persuasion he can provide and by the liberating insight into the nature of political life on which his teaching is based. In effect, Thrasymachus tells them that in their pursuit of glory they need not be hampered by considerations of justice. This is an attractive teaching, for it simplifies things and gives them a reasoned ground for giving way to those temptations which political life always presents, temptations which are usually resisted at the command of law and shame. They are ready to become Thrasymachus' students since reason and passion combine to support him. But Socrates proves to be the superior speaker. Somehow what he represents is stronger; he arouses their curiosity by showing that his rhetoric is more powe1ful and by appealing to their nobility and love of justice. Socrates' paradoxical argument touches something in them. This is the beginning of an education that will lead them very far from anything they have ever known, but the end of which follows inevitably from the concerns with which they began. Before they can tum to Thrasymachus, they will have to overcome Socrates. The daring and manly Glaucon has seen that Socrates has at best shown only the necessity of justice and not its desirability. More urbane than Thrasymachus, he recognizes the power of the reputation of justice. Therefore he does not himself praise injustice but puts the argu? ment on its behalf in the mouth of others. He presents his motivation as a desire to see justice vindicated. Of course, he does not have to sell a teaching about justice as did Thrasymachus. The contradiction between the public teaching of injustice and the public necessity for the profes? sion of justice was inherent in Thrasymachus' situation, and Glaucon's situation does not involve him in it. He profits from the lesson of Thra? symachus' discomfiture; hiding his personal doubts, he is able never? theless to satisfy his curiosity about the goodness of justice. His very mode of presenting his discourse is a model of the hypocritical use of public professions of justice. Glaucon asks whether justice is good by nature or only by law or convention, and is thus the first participant in the dialogue who turns to nature as his standard. He is a daring man whose desire not to be hood? winked by common opinions about the good