isn't even teachable and are ready to cut to pieces the man who says it is teachable. And they are al? ways crowded around the shipowner himself, begging and doing every? thing so that he'll turn the rudder over to them. And sometimes, if they fail at persuasion and other men succeed at it, they either kill the others or throw them out of the ship. Enchaining the noble shipowner with mandrake, drink, or something else, they rule the ship, using what's in it; and drinking and feasting, they sail as such men would be thought likely to sail. Besides this, they praise and call 'skilled sailor,' 'pilot,' and 'knower of the ship's business' the man who is clever at figuring out how they will get the rule, either by persuading or by forcing the shipowner, while the man who is not of this sort they blame as use? less. They don't know that for the true pilot it is necessary to pay careful attention to year, seasons, heaven, stars, winds, and every? thing that's proper to the art, if he is really going to be skilled at rul? ing a ship. And they don't suppose it's possible to acquire the art and practice of how one can get hold of the helm whether the others wish it or not, and at the same time to acquire the pilot's ski1l. So with such things happening on the ships, don't you believe that the true pilot will really be called a stargazer,6 a prater and useless to them by those who sail on ships run like this?" "Indeed, he will," said Adeimantus. "Now," I said, "I don't suppose you need to scrutinize the image to see that it resembles the cities in their disposition toward the true philosophers, but you understand what I mean." "Indeed, I do," he said. "First of all, then, teach the image to that man who wonders at the philosophers' not being honored in the cities, and try to persuade him that it would be far more to be wondered at if they were honored." "I shall teach him," he said. Book VI I 488a-490b SOCRATES/ ADEIMANTUS "And, further, that you are telling the truth in saying that the most decent of those in philosophy are useless to the many. However, bid him blame their uselessness on those who don't use them and not on the decent men. For it's not natural that a pilot beg sailors to be ruled by him nor that the wise go to the doors of the rich. The man who in? vented that subtlety lied.7 The truth naturally is that it is necessary for a man who is sick, whether rich or poor, to go to the doors of doc? tors, and every man who needs to be ruled to the doors of the man who is able to rule, not for the ruler who is truly of any use to beg the ruled to be ruled. You'll make no mistake