the good itself is-for it looks to me as though it's out of the range of our present thrust to attain the opin? ions I now hold about it. But I'm willing to tell what looks like a child of the good and most similar to it, if you please, or if not, to let it go." "Do tell," he said. "Another time you'll pay us what's due on the father's narrative." ;o7a "I could wish," I said, "that I were able to pay and you were able to receive it itself, and not just the interest, as is the case now. Anyhow, receive this interest and child of the good itself. But be careful that I don't in some way unwillingly deceive you in rendering the account of the interest fraudulent."31 "We11 be as careful as we possibly can," he said. "Just speak." "Yes," I said, "as soon as I've come to an agreement and re? minded you of the things stated here earlier and already often repeated on other occasions." "What are they?" he said. "We both assert that there are," I said, "and distinguish in speech, many fair things, many good things, and so on for each kind of thing." "Yes, so we do." "And we also assert that there is a fair itself, a good itself, and so on for all the things that we then set down as many. Now, again, we refer them to one idea of each as though the idea were one; and we ad? dress it as that which really is." ''That's so." "And, moreover, we say that the former are seen but not in- tellected, while the ideas are intellected but not seen." "That's entirely certain." "With what part of ourselves do we see the things seen?" "With the sight," he said. "Isn't it with hearing," I said, "that we hear the things heard, and with the other senses that we sense all that is sensed?" "Of course." "Have you," I said, "reflected on how lavish the craftsman of the senses was in the fabrication of the power of seeing and being seen?" "Not very much," he said. "Well consider it in this way. Is there a need for another class of thing in addition to hearing and sound in order that the one hear and the other be heard-a third thing in the absence of which the one won't hear and the other won't be heard?" "No," he said. "I suppose," I said, "that there are not many other things, not to say none, that need anything of the kind. Or can you tell of any?" "Not I," he said. "Don't you notice :that the power of seeing and what's seen do have such a need?" "How?" "Surely, when sight is in the eyes and the man possessing them tries to make use of it, and color is present in what is to be seen, in the absence of a third class of thing whose nature is specifically directed