safeguard if they have been really finely educated?" "But they have been," he said. And I said, "It's not fit to be too sure about that, my dear Glau? con. However, it is fit to be sure about what we were saying a while ago, that they must get the right education, whatever it is, if they're going to have what's most important for being tame with each other and those who are guarded by them." "That's right," he said. "Now, some intelligent man would say that, in addition to this education, they must be provided with houses and other property such as not to prevent them from being the best possible guardians and not to rouse them up to do harm to the other citi7,ens." "And he1l speak the truth." "Well, then," I said, "see if this is the way they must live and be housed if they're going to be such men. First, no one will possess any private property except for what's entirely necessary. Second, no one will have any house or storeroom into which everyone who wishes can? not' come. The sustenance, as much as is needed by moderate and courageous men who are champions of war, they'll receive in fixed 415 d e 416 a b C d e 416 e 417 a b installments from the other citizens as a wage for their guarding; in such quantity that there will be no surplus for them in a year and no lack either. They'll go regularly to mess together68 like soldiers ina camp and live a life in common. We'll tell them that gold and silver of a divine sort from the gods they have in their soul always and have no further need of the human sort; nor is it holy to pollute the possession of the former sort by mixing it with the possession of the mortal sort because many unholy things have been done for the sake of the currenc; of the many, while theirs is untainted. But for them alone of those in the city it is not lawful to handle and to touch gold and silver, nor to go under the same roof with it, nor to hang it from their persons, nor to drink from silver or gold. And thus they would save themselves as well as save the city. Whenever they'll possess private land, houses, and cur? rency, they'll be householders and farmers instead of guardians, and they'll become masters and enemies instead of allies of the other citizens; hating and being hated, plotting and being plotted against, they'll lead their whole Jives far more afraid of the enemies within than those without. Then they themselves as welJ as the rest of the city are already rushing toward a destruction that lies very near. So, for all these reasons," I said, "let's say that the guardians must be provided with houses and the rest in this way, and we shalJ set this down as a law, shall we