good of the sheep would not help them but would only serve the appetites of his master. Similarly, the man who cares for the people and devotes him? self to the common good only makes the people fatter for the exploita? tion of the city's masters. It is much more reasonable for the shepherd to deceive his masters and eat the sheep himself or to make himself the master. Now Thrasymachus makes it explicit that justice is bad for a man and that the best way of life is the most unjust one-the tyrant's life. His indignation at Socrates' argument is understandable, since one must wonder who or what takes care of the artisan-ruler who is also a human being and has needs and wishes of his own. Why would he be willing to be a ruler? Thrasymachus is unable to find an answer to this question because his own assertions have bound him. It is Socrates himself who provides an answer, although it is an enigmatic and ironic one. Reiterating this principle that a shep? herd-or a ruler-by definition cares for nothing but his flock, Socrates adds that, since the artisan gets nothing for himself from his art, he must be paid a wage. A man who earns a wage is, according to Soc? rates, a practitioner of the wage-earner's art; in point of fact, every ar? tisan practices two arts-the one from which he gets his title and the wage-earner's art. With the latter art he cares for himself; with the for? mer, for others. Wage earning, then, is the rubric that covers the side of a man's life concerned with his personal advantage; he must provide himself with the necessities, and he pursues his own good as well as that of others; he is not a selfless servant. Thus a new art, and a new kind of art, comes to light. This art, however, contradicts the definition of the arts which has been the basis of the discussion. The wage-earner's art is not concerned with the good of the art's object, but rather with the good of the practitioner. After all, the wage earner does not care for the well-being of money, he cares for his own well-being. Moreover, there being no pre-established harmony between the two arts practiced by a man, there is every prob? ability of there being conflicts between their demands. For example, what is the doctor to do who is offered a bribe for harming his patient? His two arts each make rigorous and contradictory claims upon him, and there is no evident principle for choosing which should be pre? ferred. Socrates makes this explicit when he tells Glaucon that wages must always be paid to political men, and that there is a perpetual conflict between their interests as wage earners and their interests as good rulers. The tension between the public good and private good of the in? dividual which Socrates had explicitly denied is admitted with this in? troduction of the