attain, and men need all the help they can get if they are to succeed in attaining it. The civil society proposed r 368 1 by the men of the Enlightenment, far from encouraging such modera? tion, positively discourages it. It also ridicules those sometimes simple beliefs which would help to support a man's self-restraint and remind him of his mortality. Such a society would produce a race of self? forgetting, philistine men_ who would demand as their rulers men like themselves. According to Socrates, a noble lie is the only way to insure that men who love the truth will exist and rule in a society. The noble lie was intended to make both warriors and artisans love the city, to assure that the ruled would be obedient to the rulers, and, particularly, to pre? vent the rulers from abusing their charge. Apparently, though, it is not completely successful in overcoming the warriors' temptations. Socrates goes yet further: they are deprived of all private property, of everything which they might call their own to which they might become privately at? tached, particularly money, which admits of infinite increase and extends the possibility of private desire. And they are also epi;ived of privacy; they have no place where they might store illegally acquired things or enjoy forbidden pleasures. They are always seen by men, if not by gods, so that the secrecy needed for successful lawbreaking and the gaining of an unfounded good reputation are lacking. Injustice cannot be profit? able for them. They are now completely political, the realization of Soc? rates' perfect artisan who cares only for what he rules and not at all for himself. They can have no concern other than the common good. _(419c-427 c) It is not surprising that Adeimantus rebels at this point. He has accepted much that is distasteful to him and given up many of the charms of life for the sake of the founding on which he has embarked. He wants good guardians for his city. But the comparison of the life of the guardians with what he himself would desire is too much for Adeimantus. His original demands showed him to be a friend of justice and the political community, but he wanted an easy-going sort of life which the city would defend. He was content with the city of sows; nothing that has come afterward in the construction of the good city has given him back the personal satisfaction he experienced the;re. He has the capacity for self-restraint, a certain austerity not shared by Glaucon. But this is in the name of that comfortable existence which too much desire would destroy. Now, in making the life of the guar? dians so hard, Socrates has taken away Adeimantus' motive for having allowed them to be trained so severely. Adeimantus, following the pro? cedure he and Glaucon adopted in their attacks on justice, puts his ob? jection in the mouth of another. The anonymous accuser asserts that Socrates is not