is willing to betray family or friends for gain, out of fear, or even in the pursuit of an ideal. Such loyalty seems natural, for it springs up in us with our first appetites and tastes; it is identical with love of our own. It does not have the abstract aspect of .the love of a humanity which a man cannot know in its entirety, a love which does not make distinc? tions among men. It is more powerful because of its exclusiveness; it stays within the limits of possible human concern. But, although many might be willing to admit that one's duties toward one's own take precedence over those toward mankind at large, it might well be asked why it is necessary to harm enemies, or why there need be enemies at all. The answer is twofold. There are un? just men who would destroy the good things and the good life of one's own family or nation if one did not render them impotent. And, even though there were not men who are natively unjust, there is a scarcity of good things in the world. The good life of one group of men leaves other groups outside who would like, and may even be compelled, to take away the good things of the first group. To have a family or a city that is one's own implies the distinction between insiders and outsiders; and the outsiders are potential enemies. Justice as helping friends and harming enemies is peculiarly a political definition of justice, and its dignity stands or falls with the dignity of political life. Every nation has wars and must defend itself; it can only do so if it has citizens who care for it and are willing to kill the citizens of other nations. If the distinc? tion between friends and enemies, and the inclination to help the for? mer and harm the latter, were obliterated from the heart and mind of man, political life would be impossible. This is the necessary political definition of justice., and it produces its specific kind of human nobility expressed in the virtue of the citizen. Socrates does not simply reject it as he appears to do. The warriors in his best regime, whom he com? pares to noble dogs, share in the most salient characteristic of noble [ ,'318 J dogs: gentleness toward acquaintances and harshness toward strangers. This is the key to the strengths and weaknesses of the political man. Socrates' analysis of the definition is divided into three parts: (1) a discussion of how one can do good to friends (332c-334b); (2) an at? tempt to define a friend (334c-335b); and (3) a critique of the notion that a just man can do harm (335b-336a). Socrates begins by asserting that Simonides meant that the owed is the fitting. The deposit is no longer important. Whether a man has deposited something or not is irrelevant; the only consideration is what is fitting for him. Justice might mean depriving