teaching that the fatal error consists in taking the city too seriously and adapting to its demands, thus that men need not be like the regimes, that the regimes need not be the primary fact of their lives, particular1y if they live in a democracy. The good city's corruption was mysterious and shrouded in myth; the very existence of that city was questionable. The only nonmythica] account one can give of it is that drawn from a comparison with the causes of the corruption of the inferior regimes: the preoccupation with the acquisition of property and the difficulties involved in its distribu? tion make it impossible for the city to devote itself to the gooa use of that property or, simp]y, to the good life. The body cannot be forgot? ten, and thus it is impossible to renounce everything connected with private property and concentrate only on the sou1. The possession of private property is the crucial change from the best regime to the second best, and all the i11s which beset the various regimes follow from that change. The city's primary business becomes the management of prop? erty and is, hence, the dedication to mere life. It is no accident that in thelist of regimes the central one is oligarchy, for in its pursuit of money, it incarnates the concern of the real city. The private desires which money represents and can fulfi.11 and which are at a tension with public spirit become more and more dominant as one goes down the slope of the regimes. Socrates indicates that because a city is a composite of many kinds of men, of whom very few are capable of love of knowledge, no city can avoid the fundamental compromise with private property. The corruption of the aristocrat's son, on the other hand, can be seen by all. Unlike the adstocratic city, the aristocratic man really ex? ists; he is a philosopher. Moreover, he is exactly like Socrates. He devotes himself to learning; he is totally indifferent to his body and other men's opinions of him; he is utterly dedicated and single-minded. But his wife, like Xanthippe, cannot endure the fact that her husband, and thereby she herself, is unhonored and despised. She, along with other like-minded people, convinces his son that this is no way to live. She echoes Callicles, who in the Gorgias accused the philosopher of being unmanly, of being incapable of honorably avenging insults. Man's fall from the state of innocence is a result of a woman's tempt? ings. The son's spiritedness is awakened, and he lives the life of a proud man, performing those deeds which will make him respected by others. Such a life entails the abandonment of philosophy, both because he no longer has time for it and because the questions raised by it are not ap? propriate to a gentleman. He now lives for the opinions of other men and no longer for himself. His father was not truly a citizen-he was in the