skilled server of his own interest is miserable because he lacks justice. Socrates is commanded to prove that selfless dedication is rewarded by nature, that justice is the one thing most needful. After Glaucon completes his exposition of the nature of justice and makes his demands for its defense, his brother enters the scene to state his problem. Although the two speeches seem supplementary, they are rea11y quite different and set conflicting tasks for Socrates. As Glaucon was daring, Adeimantus is moderate; as Glaucon turned to nature, Adeimantus turns to opinion; as Glaucon paid attention to what he saw, Adeimantus pays attention to what he hears. He is par? ticularly addicted to poetry. He does not make an argument for the superiority of injustice, but is perplexed by what he hears about justice. Although justice is praised, it is not praised for itself but for its rewards, and those rewards consist in certain pleasures which can be enjoyed by men who are unjust. It is not justice but the reputation for justice which gets these rewards. The accounts of gods and men con? tained in the classic poems support this conclusion. According to these poems, some just men are unhappy, and unjust men can win the favor of the gods. Everything that is known about men's duties comes from the poetic tradition, the laws, and parental training; and all in effect agree that justice itself does not produce happiness, that there are substitutes for justice, that just acts are not pleasant or good. It may be improper to question the tradition; but, once questioned, its internal contradictions lead to the same conclusion as that of both Thrasyma? chus and Glaucon. Either the tales are true, and one should seem rather than be just; or they are not true, jn which case nature, the only substitute for them, teaches the same thing. We live within a horizon constructed by the poets, a horizon bounded by the presence of the gods. Cepha]us, who spends his old age using his money to placate the gods' possible wrath at his earlier unjust deeds, is most representative of this human condition. There is no other available account of the sanctions of justice, and this one is not adequate to make it choicewor? thy. Thus Adeimantus, too, wishes to hear a new and adequate praise of justice, but what he asks for is different from what his brother asked for. Just as the latter desired an argument for pure and earnest dedica- tion, so Adeimantus now reveals his deepest wishes by insisting that justice be easy and pleasant. It should in itself incorporate the ad? vantages conventionally said to result from its practice. The poets prom? ise just men great honors and sensual pleasures in this life and the next. Without making it quite-explicit, Adeimantus longs for justice it? self to be like or to be an adequate substitute for these honors and pleasures. Justice is always said to be hard, and there are ways to