and very much so," he said, "if they are moderate." "For how will they be able to dispute it? Will they say the philosophers aren't lovers of that which is and of truth?" "That would be strange," he said. "Or that their nature as we described it isn't akin to the best?" "Not that either." "Or this-that such a nature, when it chances on suitable practices, will not be perfectly good and philosophic if any is? Or are those men whom we excluded by nature more so?"28 "Surely not." "Will they still be angry when we say that before the philosophic class becomes master of a city, there will be no rest from ills either for city or citizens nor will the regime about which we tell tales in speech get its completion in deed?" "Perhaps less," he said. "If you please," I said, "let's not say that they are less angry but that they have become in every way gentle and have been persuaded, so 50i that from shame, if nothing else, they will agree." "Most certainly," he said. "Now, let's assume they have been persuaded of this," I said. "And, as to the next point, will anyone argue that there is no chance that children of kings, or of men who hold power, could be born philosophers by their natures?" "There won't," he said, "even be one who will argue that." "And if such men came into being, can anyone say that it's quite necessary that they be corrupted? That it's hard to save them, we too admit. But that in all of time not one of all of them could ever be saved, is there anyone who would argue that?" "How could he?" 502 b "But surely," I said, "the birth of one, if he has an obedient city, is sufficient for perfecting everything that is now doubted." "Yes," he said, "one is sufficient." "For, of course, when a ruler sets down the laws and practices that we have gone through," I said, "it's surely not impossible that the citizens be willing to carry them out." "Not at all." "But, then, is it anything wonderful or impossible if others also have the same opinions as we do?" c. "I don't suppose so," he said. "And further, that it is best, granted it's possible, we have, I believe, already gone through sufficiently." "Yes, it was sufficient." "Now, then, as it seems, it turns out for us thatwhat we are saying about lawgiving is best if it could come to be, and that it is hard for it to come to be; not, however, impossible." "Yes," he said, "that's the way it turns out." "Now that this discussion has after considerable effort reached an end, mustn't we next speak about what remains-in what way and as a c. result of what studies and practices the saviors will take their place within our regime for us and at what ages each will take up each study?" "Indeed we must," he