to make every effort so that other things of little worth be as precise and pure as can be, while not deeming the greatest things worth the greatest precision?" "That's a very worthy thought," he said. "However, as to what you mean by the greatest study and what it concerns, do you think anyone is going to let you go without asking what it is?" "Certainly not," I said. "Just ask. At all events, it's not a few times already that you have heard it; but now you are either not think? ing or have it in mind to get hold of me again and cause me trouble. I suppose it's rather the latter, since you have many times heard that the idea of the good is the greatest study and that it's by availing oneself of it along with just things and the rest that they become useful and beneficial. And now you know pretty certainly that I'm going to say this and, besides this, that we don't have sufficient knowledge of it. And, if we don't know it and should have ever so much knowledge of the rest without this, you know that it's no profit to us, just as there would be none in possessing something in the absence of the good. Or do you suppose it's of any advantage to possess everything except what's good? Or to be prudent about everything else in the absence of the good, while being prudent about nothing fine and good?" "No, by Zeus," he said. "I don't." "And, further, you also know that in the opinion of the many the good is pleasure, while in that of the more refined it is prudence." "Of course." "And, my friend, that those who believe this can't point out what kind of prudence it is, but are finally compelled to say 'about the good.'" "And it's quite ridiculous of them," he said. "Of course, it is," I said, "if they reproach us for not knowing the good, and then speak as though we did know. For they say it is pru? dence about the good as though we,. in turn, grasped what they mean when they utter the name of the good.'' "Very true," he said. "And what about those who define pleasure as good? Are they any less full of confusion than the others? Or aren't they too compelled to agree that there are bad pleasures?" "Indeed they are." "Then I suppose the result is that they agree that the same things are good and bad, isn't it?" "Of course." "Isn't it clear that there are many great disputes about it?" "Of course." "And what about this? Isn't it clear that many men would choose to do, possess, and enjoy the reputation for things that are opined to be just and fair, even if they aren't, while, when it comes to good things, no one is satisfied with what is opined to be so but each seeks the things that are, and