customary usage. But as it is, plainly you'll say that injustice is fair and mighty, and, since you also dared to set it down in the camp of virtue and wisdom, you'll set down to its ac- count all the other things which we used to set down as belonging to the just." "Your divination is very true," he said. "But nonetheless," I said, "one oughtn't to hesitate to pursue the consideration of the argument as long as I understand you to say what you think. For, Thrasymachus, you seem really not to be joking now, but to be speaking the truth as it seems to you." "And what difference does it make to you," he said, "whether it seems so to me or not, and why don't you refute the argument?" "No difference," I said. "But try to answer this in addition to the other things: in your opinion would the just man be willing to get the better of the just man in anything?" "Not at all," he said. "Otherwise he wouldn't be the urbane inno? cent he actually is." "And what about this: would he be willing to get the better of the just action?" "Not even of the just action," he said. "And does he claim he deserves to get the better of the unjust man, and believe it to be just, or would he not believe it to be so?" "He'd believe it to be just," he said, "and he'd claim he deserves to get the better, but he wouldn't be able to." "That," I said, "is not what I am asking, but whether the just man wants, and claims he deserves, to get the better of the unjust and not of the just man?" "He does," he said. "And what about the unjust man? Does he claim he deserves to get the better of the just man and the just action?" "How could it be otherwise," he said, "since he claims he deserves to get the better of everyone?" "Then will the unjust man also get the better of the unjust hu? man being and action, and will he struggle to take most of all for himself?" "That's it." "Let us say it, then, as follows," I said, "the just man does not get the better of what is like but of what is unlike, while the unjust man gets the better oflike and unlike?" "What you said is very good," he said. "And," I said, "is the unjust man both prudent and good, while the just man is neither?" "That's good too," he said. "Then," I said, "is the unjust man also like the prudent and the good, while the just man is not like them?" 345. a b C d 349d e "How," he said, "could he not be like such men, since he is such as they, while the other is not like them." "Fine. Then is each of them such as those to whom he is like?" "What else could