had it in mind to say something to it, but his brother Adeimantus said in his turn, "You surely don't believe, Socrates, that the argument has been adequately stated?" "Why not?" I said. "What most needed to be said has not been said," he said. "Then," I said, "as the saying goes, 'let a man stand by his brother.'7 So, you too, if he leaves out anything, come to his defense. And yet, what he said was already enough to bring me to my knees and make it impossible to help out justice." And he said, "Nonsense. But still hear this too. We must also go through the arguments opposed to those of which he spoke, those that praise justice and blame injustice, so that what Glaucon in my opinion wants will be clearer. No doubt, fathers say to their sons and exhort them, as do all those who have care of anyone, that one must be just. However, they don't praise justice by itself but the good reputations that come from it; they exho1i their charges to be just so that, as a result of the opinion, ruling offices and marriages will come to the one who seems to be just, and all the other things that Glaucon a moment ago attributed to the just man as a result of his having a good reputa? tion. And these men tell even more of the things resulting from the opinions. For by throwing in good reputation with the gods, they can tell of an inexhaustible store of goods that they say gods give to the holy. And in this way they join both the noble Hesiod and Homer. The former says that for the just the gods make the oaks Bear acorns on high, and bees in the middle, And the fleecy sheep heavily laden with wool8 and many other very good things connected with these. And the other has pretty much the same to tell, as when he says, As for some blameless king who in fear of the gods Upholds justice, the black earth bears Barley and wheat, the trees are laden with fruit, The sheep bring forth without fail, and the sea provides fish.9 And M usaeus and his son give the just even headier goods than these from the gods. In their speech they lead them into Hades and lay them down on couches; crowning them, they prepare a symposium of the 363 c holy, and they then make them go through the rest of time drunk, in the belief that the finest wage of virtue is an eternal drunk.10 Others ex- d tend the wages from the gods yet further than these. For they say that a holy and oath-keeping man leaves his children's children and a whole tribe behind him. So in these and like ways they extol justice. And, in tum, they bury the unholy and unjust in mud in Hades and compel them to carry water in a sieve; and they bring