publicizing what is properly private. His crime consists of breaking the legislator's command that moral virtue must always be represented as leading to happiness. In other words, the poet tells the truth about the passions, a truth suppressed by the law. Men are attached to their own things, and much of the significance of life comes from those things, which are not necessarily acquired or kept by the exercise of the moral virtues. The legislator taught that nobility and happiness are one; the poets separate the two and reveal the truth. As a matter of fact, the legislator, as we saw in Book III, turns to the poet when he wishes to learn the nature of the human passions. In order to know what in man has to be overcome in order to establish a good regime, Socrates studies Homer. Homer, then, is not Socrates' opponent because he knows nothing of nature. It is rather because he knows only that part of nature which causes men to laugh or cry, the part that makes human life appear either ridiculous or miserable. The poets deal with the failures of acting men and show what the Republic has also shown-that the practical or moral life is essentially self-contradictory and is hence either comic or tragic. But the poets do not show, and perhaps do not believe in, the possibility of a noncontradictory life lived by a man who is neither comic nor tragic. They water man's laughter and his pity without giving him a counterpoise; hence they justify laughter and pity as ultimate responses to the human situation. Pity, in particular, is a passion con? nected with one's own possible sufferings; it sees the losses suffered by even the noblest of men and recognizes how threatened are the things for which a man lives. Pity, grown great, ends in terror caused by the misery of man's existence. The man overwhelmed by pity and fear is the Jilan least of all able to forget himse1f and his own, and hence the things that wil1 protect him and give his life meaning. Most of al1, he looks to the laws and the gods, and his pity can well make him a fanatic. The natural passions of men which Homer knows and appeals toarethose that most attach a man to convention and hence to bondage in the cave. And the Homeric gods are such as to encourage and satisfy the pitying part of man's soul. Socrates admits the overwhelming charm of poetry, a charm com? posed of elements drawn on the one hand, from the attachment to one's particular existence and what is connected with it, and, on the other hand, from the pleasure which accompanies the contemplation of the truth. But the truth which poetry reveals is only a partial truth, and, in liberating from the conventions or laws of a city, it can contribute to an enslavement to the source of convention, the love of one's own. Reason is the only instrument with