There are, then, two kinds of virtue: philosophic virtue and demotic, or vulgar, virtue. Moreover, in both instances, virtue is loved not for virtue,s sake but for some other good beyond it; or, to use Kantian language, the system of the virtues presented by Socrates is heteronomous. What Glaucon had asked for is a proof that justice is good in itself. The implicit Socratic teaching is that no such proof is possible, that nature does not give a ground for a virtue not connected with some other end. He differs from the utilitarians only in that the needs of the body do not constitute the only end. In Socratic thought, the demands of philosophy, or of the soul, provide a second polar star for the gtiidance of human conduct. This tempers the unmitigated pursuit of the goods connected with the body and the city which characterizes the tradition begun by Machiavelli and Hobbes; and it adds a sublimity to the ac? count of the virtues which is also lacking in the later thought. Still, this leaves the virtues of the warrior class in a kind of limbo. They are asked to live and die for the city. They are asked to have more virtues than their self-preservation would demand, yet they are not philosophers. What, then, is the status of their virtues? Socrates seems to deny the existence of the independent moral virtues. These are the virj:ues presented by Aristotle as ends in themselves, pursued only be? cause they are noble. Socrates presents instead two kinds of virtues, one low and one high, but both mercenary in the sense that they are pur? sued for the sake of some reward. The warrior's virtue is somewhere between them. Virtue, if pursued for other reasons, is no longer what we mean by true virtue; the great tradition stretching from Aristotle to Kant is evidence for that. But virtue pursued for its own sake is without ground and has a tincture of folly. This is the Socrati teaching. Moral virtue is a halfway house, partaking of the grandeur et misere of its two sources. (487b-503b) Adeimantus, sensing the inadequacy of this proof of the philosopher's public virtue and comparing it with the experience of the cities, for the fourth and last time stops Socrates in-the name of the city. Once more, his interruption takes the form of an accusation, but an accusation no longer directed against certain political proposals but rather against the philosophers themselves, against the true source of the difficulties. According to Adeimantus, philosophers mislead men by their superior power of speech, making the weaker argl}ment appear the stronger; at best they are useless to the city, at worst, and most usually, they are completely vicious. Of all men, their dedication to the city appears to be most questionable. Philosophy always has a bad reputation, and it becomes Socrates' duty to show that its ill-repute is the fault of those who hate it rather than of its practitioners. In the per?