to excess is likely to provoke a correspondingly great change in the opposite direction-in seasons, in plants, in bodies, and, in particular, not least in regimes." "That's probable," he said. "Too much freedom seems to change into nothing but too much slavery, both for private man and city." "Yes, that's probable." "Well, then," I said, "tyranny is probably established out of no other regime than democracy, I suppose-the greatest a;nd most savage slavery out of the extreme of freedom." "Yes," he said, "that's reasonable." "But I suppose you weren't asking that," I said, "but rather what disease, growing naturally in oligarchy and democracy alike, enslaves the latter." "What you say is true," he said. "Well, then," I said, "I meant that class of idle, extravagant men. The most courageous part of them leads, the less courageous part follows. It's just these whom we liken to drones, some equipped with stings, others without stings." "That's right," he said. "Well, then," I said, "when these two come into being in any regime, they cause trouble, like phlegm and bile in a body. And it's against them that the good doctor and lawgiver of a city, no less than a wise beekeeper, must take long-range precautions, preferably that they not come into being, but if they do come into being, that they be cut out as quickly as possible, cells and all." "Yes, by Zeus," he said, "completely." "Well, then," I said, "let's take it like this so that we may more distinctly see what we want." 564b C "H OW.?" I "In the argument let's divide the city under a democracy into three parts, which is the way it actually is divided. One class is surely that which, thankstothelicense,growsnaturallyinitnolessthanintheoligarchiccity." "That's so." "But it's far fiercer here than in the other." "How's that?" "There, due to its not being held in honor but being driven from the ruling offices, it is without exercise and isn't vigorous. But in a democracy, presumably, this class, with few exceptions, leads, and its fiercest part does the speaking and the acting, while the rest alight near the platform and buzz and don't endure the man who says anything else; the result is that everything, apart from a certain few exceptions, is governed by this class in such a regime." "Quite so," he said. "Well, there is also another class that always distinguishes itself from the multitude." "What class?" "Presumably when all are engaged in money-making, the men most orderly by nature become, for the most part, richest." "Likely." "Then I suppose that it is there that the most honey, and that easiest to get to, can be squeezed out by the drones." "How," he said, "could one squeeze it out of those who have lit- tle?" "Then I suppose such rich men are called the drones' pasture." "Just about," he said. "And the people wodld be the third class, alJ those who do their own work, don't meddle in affairs, and don't possess very much. Whenever they