a relevant political science is designed to answer it. The different kinds of regime are distinguished by their explicit goals, which derive from the ways of life men can choose. Truly different regimes, and men, stem from significant and irreducible differences of principle. Socrates suggests that wisdom, honor, money, freedom, and love are the ends which men pursue and for which they can use the political order; the dominance of one principle or another brings forth very different dimensions in the lives of men. The healthy soul is the standard for the judgment of regimes and the key to understanding them; the healthy regime is the one that allows for the development of healthy souls. Such a political science is more akin to medicine than to mathematics. Political science must be evaluative; just as a doctor must know what a healthy body is, a political scientist must know what a healthy regime is. Such a political science provides a much richer and more comprehensive framework than that provided by our contemporary political science with its over? simplified dichotomies, democratic versus totalitarian or developed versus underdeveloped. These represent a pale reminiscence of the Socratic approach, impoverished both because we rely too much on the [ 414 J narrow experience of our own time and because of our attempts to erect a value-free science on the foundation of that narrow experience. Socrates' political science as presented here is not quite serious because it is absurdly severe, using as its standard a regime which can never exist. Socrates still insists that the regime of philosopher-kings can exist and that all other regimes are corruptions of it. His procedure is justified by his desire to include all the highest capacities in the city, to make the complete man a part of the complete city. But the inclu? sion of the philosopher stretches the limits of the city beyond the realm of the possible. Aristotle elaborated Socrates' sketch and turned it into a true political science by adjusting his standard to the possibilities of political life. Aristotle treats the gentlemen as though their virtue were complete and self-sufficient, thus making it possible to base decent regimes on the gentlemen. In his view, any regime in which the rulers care for the common good is legitimate, and there are a variety of such regimes. Socrates, on the other hand, subjects the nonphilosophic vir? tues to a harsher scrutiny which reveals that they are seriously flawed. There is hence only one good regime; this is ruled by philosophers, who are the only men with no temptation to get the better of others and ex? ploit the city. Thus, on the basis of a regime which can never be, he is able to cast doubt on the legitimacy of all possible regimes. Socrates presents political life in this way with the intention of benefiting Glaucon and Adeimantus. He is in the process of leading them back to the level of ordinary political life after their brief ascent toward