use others for his own ad? vantage, as the city does. And in the present discussion Socrates has made it appear that the soul's health can be attained in isolation; as the good city's neighbors were only a hindrance in its quest for the good life, a man's neighbors might also be understood to be hindrances. In that case, he would want to strive for the greatest self-sufficiency. This impression is intensified by the fact that the body, whose needs tie a man to his fellows, has been treated here as though it did not exist. The parallel of city and man presented would tend to support the view that the just man-in the sense of the man with a healthy soul-would not want to be a good citizen in the good city. It would also seem that he would not want to be a tyrant, for his perfection seems to be inde? pendent of the city. When Socrates points out that a man with a healthy soul would not be likely to steal deposits, break oaths, commit adultery, etc., he does not prove that the just individual abstains from such deeds because he respects the laws or even cares for other men. The fact that the just man does not try to take advantage of other men could be as easily explained by a lack of desire for the objects involved as by at? tachment to the common good. In describing the conduct of such a man in relation to others, Socrates only tells of things he does not do, but never mentions any positive deeds of citizen virtue which he does do. It would seem possible to be a just man without being a just citizen, which goes further than anything Glaucon had suggested. The apparent answer to the question of justice has only heightened the difficulty of that question, for we now have the just city and the just soul, and their relations are as mysterious as are the rela? tions of body and soul. As a result of the spurious identification of city and soul, the nature of the soul has emerged as the decisive considera? tion in the understanding of justice. Given the magnitude of this con? sideration, it is no wonder that Socrates is eager, as he was in the beginning of the dialogue, to hurry away. It is also no wonder that his companions once again join together to stop him, for he owes them much more. (449a-473c) In a scene that recapitulates the beginning of the dialogue, Polemarchus again joins with Adeimantus to "arrest" Soc? rates. They are more formidable this time, for they have now added Glaucon and Thrasymachus to their ranks. The dialogue begins anew. Socrates' companions have recognized, if only in a peripheral way, the incompleteness of the discussion of the soul, which they take to be an incompleteness of the discussion of the city. They want to know more about his statement that friends in the city have