order to prevent the allied city from becoming all-powerful, it will foment civil discord within it, siding with the poor, although the guardians' city does not believe the poor have justice on their side. In this way the city can live as though it had no neighbors and devote itself to whatever way of life it deems best. In relation to its neighbors, the city is not motivated by considerations of justice but by those of preservation. Justice has to do with the domestic life of the city and cannot be extended beyond its borders. This is a point to be considered when examining the analogy between city and man: justice is supposed to be the same in both, so one would expect that a man should behave toward other men as does a city toward other cities. Socrates' argument persuades at least Adeimantus, and therewith his last reserves about the-regime have been overcome. He becomes Soc? rates' whole-hearted ally. He now uses his moralizing severity against all enemies of the regime, particularly against poets and_ ordinary statesmen. Anything that might weaken his newly founded city is his enemy, and he is angry with those whom he regards as vicious. His con? duct can be explained by reference to an observation he himself made in his long speech on justice. There he asserted that a man who truly knows that justice is better than injustice is not angry with those who do injustice; rather, he sympathizes with their ignorance, knowing that they are not responsible. The implication is that those who are angry at injustice do not know its inferiority, that their anger is a way of sup? pressing their own temptations, that they blame others for giving way to temptations that beset themselves.. After the curious fashion of moral indignation, they attribute responsibility where there is none. For those who want to be just but hold the objects of injustice to be good, self? restraint is necessary; anger and blame are the means of hat restraint. In these passages the contrast between Socrates' gentleness and Adei? mantus' indignation is striking, suggesting that they represent the al? ternatives of knowledge and ignorance of the superiority of justice. It almost seems as though Socrates is incapable of the anger so necessary to political justice, and, therefore, can use Adeimantus to advantage here and elsewhere. Adeimantus' particular form of spiritedness, when tamed, is a scourge of injustice, a source of primitive justice. (427c--445e) With the establishment of rules concerning the wor? ship of the gods, the city is asserted to be complete and perfect. Its per? fection must consist in its being the only city in which the rulers rule for the advantage of the ruled and hence of the weaker-the exact op? posite of Thrasymachus' description of rulers, but in accord with Soc- rates' and Thrasymachus' joint understanding of the artisan in the pre? cise sense. At last Socrates and his companions are ready to begin the investigation for which all