of the various arts, and that the knowledge of the latter belongs to the practitioners of those arts. In this way the poet comes off very badly in? deed because he is surely not a knower of all the diverse arts; his repre? sentation is only a shadow of the competent opinions of the artisans. But all of this is somehow very wrong. In the first place, not everything represented in poetry is an artifact; indeed, its most interesting objects are not products of art. Second, poetry presents its objects in their in? terrelations, as no particular art can do. The specialist in health does not as such know the proper uses of a healthy body. Poetry is. essen? tially comprehensive or synoptic, and this distinguishes it from the spe? cial arts. The poem is a collection of imitations, but it is informed by the vision of the poet, a vision that transcends the level of the special arts. The further development of the argU1T1ent gradually reveals the reasons for this unusual presentation. Since it has been determine9 that the artisans are the standard of knowledge, it follows that if Homer is to be authoritative, he must have exercised all of the arts or at least the most important ones. Homer, if he was so skilled and is an appropriate teacher of the Greeks, should be famous for his deeds as well as his speeches. His favorite themes are human virtues and vices, so it is prop? er to see what he did as a legislator, general, educator, etc. It is evi? dent that he had a reputation in none of these fields, and it is even said that he was neglected and abandoned in his own lifetime. It.therefore follows that Homer is not a reliable teacher of the most important hu? man things. The tacit assumption of the argument is that it is better to be a doer than a knower, or that knowledge is only tested in action-in benefits to other men. But a moment's reflection makes one aware that these charges against Homer apply at least as well to Socrates. He was not a lawgiver, a leader in war, an inventor, or a professor in the manner of Pro? tagoras; there was also no way of life named after Socrates as there was a Pythagorean way of life. He was worse than neglected by his con? temporaries. Yet he, too, understood himself to be wise in human things. The authority to talk about human things does not come from the study of any of the arts, and Homer and Socrates are one in their neglect of the arts and their divorce from the practical life. What Soc? rates shows in this presentation is that the ordinary standards for judg? ment of the worth of an activity or depth of wisdom are not applicable to Homer -or himself. Wisdom has another source than art, and there is another kind of relation to the ideas than that of the