in which he narrates." "Which are they?" he said. "In my opinion," I said, "when the sensible man comes in his nar? rative to some speech or deed of a good man, he will be willing to report it as though he himself were that man and won't be ashamed of such an imitation. He will imitate the good man most when he is acting ste dily and prudently; less, and less willingly, when he's unsteadied by diseases, loves,43 drink, or some other misfortune. But when he meets with someone unworthy of himself, he won't be willing seriously to rep? resent himself as an inferior, unless, of course, it's brief, when the man does something good; rather, he'll be ashamed, both because he's unpracticed at imitating such men and because he can't stand forming himself according to, and fitting himself into, the models of worse men. In his mind he despises this, unless it's done in play." "It's likely," he said. "Then, won't he use a narration like the one we described a little while ago concerning Homer's verses, and won't his style participate in both imitation and the other kind of narrative, but there'll be a little bit of imitation in a great deal of speech? Or am I talking nonsense?" "That," he said, "is just the way the model of such a speaker must be.n "Now, then," I said, "as for the man who's not of this sort, the more common he i , the more he'll narrate everything and think noth- 397 ing unworthy of himself; hence he'll undertake seriously to imitate in the presence of many everything we were just mentioning-thunder, the noises of winds, hailstorms, axles and pulleys, the voices of trumpets, flutes, and all the instruments, and even the sound of dogs, sheep, and birds. And this man's whole style will be based on imitation of voice and looks, or else include only a bit of narrative." "That," he said, "is also the way it must be." "Well, then," I said, "these are the two forms of style I meant." "So they are," he said. "Then, of the two, one involves only small changes, and, if someone assigns the appropriate harmonic mode and rhythm44 to the style, it turns out that the man who speaks correctly speaks mostly in the same style and in one mode, for the changes are small, and likewise in a similar rhythm." "That's exactly the way it is," he said. "And what about the form of the other? Doesn't it need the op? posites-all modes and all rhythms-if it's going to be spoken in its own way, because it involves all species of changes?" "Yes, indeed, that's very much the way it is." 397 C d e 398a b "Do all the poets and the men who say anything fall into one of these patterns of style or the other, or make some mixture of them both?" "Necessarily," he said. "What will we do then?" I said. "Shall we