one. Or doesn't it seem so?" "Very much so indeed," he said. "In which of the citizens will you say the moderation resides, when they are in this condition? In the rulers or the ruled?" "In both, surely," he said. "You see," I said, "we divine-cl pretty accurately a while ago that moderation is like a kind of harmony." "Why so?" "Because it's unlike courage and wisdom, each of which resides in a part, the one making the city wise and the other courageous. Modera? tion doesn't work that way, but actualJy stretches throughout the whole, from top to bottom of the entire scale,18 making the weaker, the stronger and those in the middle-whether you wish to view them as such in terms of prudence, 9r, if you wish, in terms of strength, or mul? titude, money or anything else whatsoever of the sort-sing the same chant together. So we would quite rightly claim that this unanimity is moderation, an accord of wors.e and better, according to nature, as to which must rule in the city and in each one." "I am," he said, "very much of the same opinion." "A]] right," I said. "Three of them have been spied out in our city, at least sufficiently to form some opinion. Now what would be the remaining form thanks to which the city would further partake in vir? tue? For, plainly, this is justice." "Plainly." "So then, Glaucon, we must, like hunters, now station ourselves in a circle around the thicket and pay attention so that justice doesn't slip through somewhere and disappear into obscurity. Clearly it's somewhere hereabouts. Look to it and make every effort to catch sight of it; you might somehow see it before me and could teJJ me." "If only I could," he said. "However, if you use me as a follower and a man able to see what's shown him, you']] be making quite sensi? ble use of me." "Follow," I said, "and pray with me." "I'll do that," he said, "just lead." Book IV I 43ld-433c SOCRATES/GLAUCO "The place really appears to be hard going and steeped in shadows," I said. "At least it's dark and hard to search out. But, all the same, we've got to go on." "Yes," he said, "we've got to go on." And I caught sight of it and said, "Here! Here!19 G]aucon. Maybe we've come upon a track; and, in my opinion, it will hardly get away from us." "That's good news you report," he said. "My, my," I said, "that was a stupid state we were in." "How's that?" "It appears, you blessed man, that it's been rolling around20 at our feet from the beginning and we couldn't see it after all, but were quite ridiculous. As men holding something in their hand sometimes seek what they're holding, we too didn't look at it but turned our gaze somewhere far off, which is also perhaps just the reason it escaped our notice." "How do you mean?" he