of malicious talk that goes around in the city about some? one with a bad reputation. 9. The terminology is that of love, procreation, and childbirth. 10. The reference is to the chorus employed in tragedy and comedy. Soc? rates treats the characteristics of the soul as though they were the actors in the dramatic poems produced by the city for the public festivals, and acts as though he were their trainer or director. 11. Cf. 412e, note 64. 12. The precise meaning of this expression is not certainly known, but there are two stories that might explain it. a. After Odysseus and Diomede stole the Palladium from Troy one night, Odysseus, in order to have the glory of the achievement for himself, attempted to kill Diomede. Diomede saw the shadow of Odysseus' sword in the light of the moon and turned on him. He bound Odysseus' hands and drove him to the Greek camp ahead of him, covering his back with blows from the flat of his sword. b. There was a Thracian named Diomede whose daughters were prostitutes. He forced the strangers who came to him to have intercourse with them, and then killed the strangers (cf. Aristophanes, Ecclesiazusae, 1029). The Aris? tophanes passage indicates that the latter story is the one referred to here. 5. There is a series of puns here on the genitive of the Greek word nous, "mind" or "intelligence" (cf. 614b and note 13). Seth Benardete sug? gests that this clause be translated: "... with pretentions and conceits of naughts fraught with thoughtlessness." 6. The sentence is incomplete; Socrates, about to introduce the image, stops to develop the comparison and then asks for his interlocutor's agreement before continuing the original thought. 7. Socrates plays on the words for a worker in bronze, or a blacksmith, and money (argurion, which is silver) and calls to mind the metals of the two lower classes in the city (4156--c). The words "relea:.ed" (lelymenou) and Notes I bOOK V l "bathed" (lelumenou) are practically the same, and the phrase forms little jingle. . 5. A sophism is a clever trick or captious argument; it is the product of a "wise guy:'' The maker of a sophism would be a sophist. 6. The accent in this word is on the care of ills, perhaps on the over? attentiveness to them (cf. 407b). 7. Daimonion-"of or belonging to a demon" (cf. 382e, note 55). For Socrates' daimonion see Apology, 31d; Theaetetus, 151a; Theages, 128e; Xenophon, Memorabilia, i, 4. 8. Logoi (cf. 334a, note 25). 9. Heracleitus, according to Aristotle, said: "... every day the sun is new" (Aristotle, Meteorologica, ii, 2.9). 10. These are terms used in the art of rhetoric; in the sentence which begins, "For they never saw... ," there is a parody of these forms in a little jingle that cannot be rendered in English. 11. Euripides, Hippolytus, 102. "I nod her a distant greeting because I am pure." 5. The word for "obey" means "to