able to diagnose and treat them properly. Socrates chooses to ignore the question, but it is clear that he has more to learn from the expenence of Herodicus and Homer-from complex medicine and complex poetry which know not only the good but also the bad-than he is here willing to admit. It seems that the arts-and hence intellec? tual perfection-flourish in an atmosphere which is inimical to the citizen virtue of the warriors. A soldier or an artisan who forgets his body and concentrates on his work is surely better at his trade, but the body cannot be forgotten by the man who wishes to have knowledge of the body and its relation to the soul. The demands of citizen virtue and intellectual virtue are different. What appears to be a concentration on the warriors' souls is actually a concern for the power of their bodies. If the warriors were to see the truth about bodies, they could not be trusted to control them. Their education is incomplete and so are they. Socrates' denigration of the body goes so far that he ends by deny? ing that gymnastic has anything to do with the body at all. Its real pur? pose is to train the soul. Just as the spirited part of the soul needed soft? ening, so the gentle or philosophic part needs hardening. Reason tends to be weak in that it puts itself into the service of the passions or gives way to the rage of spiritedness. It must be strengthened so that it can resist particular desires and angers in its quest for the universal truth. Gymnastic serves that function. In the preparation of the warriors' souls for good citizenship, Socrates also looks to their openness to philosophy and the salvation of any potential philosophers among them. Spiritedness and gentleness are the warp and woof of the soul, each necessary to its healthy functioning but in a delicate balance with one another._To alter the metaphor, the soul must be tuned like an in? strument, by relaxing and tightening the strings; this is what education in music and gymnastic does. The proper tuning of the instrument is the precondition of citizenship and of philosophy. At the end of the warriors' education-an education intended to make them good guardians of a peaceful people----it becomes evident that the virtue which has been encouraged is moderation. This educa? tion is now complete and the warriors are about to assume their func? tions, but there has been no training in justice. It seems possible to have good guardians who are not just. This can be explained only if moderation is an equivalent of justice. And moderation is, at least from the city's standpoint, such an equivalent. The main source of civic strife is competition for scarce good things, and those who can control their desires for these things are least likely to Bnd it to their advantage to be seditious and break the laws. In the city of sows, the harmony of