when T H E n E P u B L Ic:l the private, as opposed to the political, is treated as superior or more impor? tant, for example, when the city is not the best possible and certain individuals can be more fully human in opposition to it. It is most important to note this word in a context in which the arts are compared to a community of men. In almost all cases idion will be translated as "private." 14. Cf. 338c, note 32. 15. The word used-dikastai-is the one sed for members of the Athenian juries. This is another reference to the mock trial of Socrates. Here Socrates suggests another form of rhetoric that would assure his triumph over his accuser and do away with his dependence on popular judgment. 16. The Greek word for innocence, euetheia, is composed from words meaning "good habits"; the word for corruption, kakoetheia, is composed from wor.ds meaning "bad habits." Hence Socrates' transition here is very direct, if not entirely obvious. 14. Cf. 327a and note 5. Book II I. This is the first occurrence in the Republic of the famed Platonic word eidos; it gives its name to what is known as the "theory of ideas or forms," Plato's teaching about the first or most fundamental beings. The meaning of this teaching has always been a subject of controversy. This is another case where an attempt to follow Plato's use of the word from its casual common? sense meaning to its highest theoretical meaning is a precondition of learning, because that highest sense is only a distillation of what is implied in the casual use of the word. Etymologically, eidos is derived from the verb "to see" and means, in the first instance, "the appearance of a thing"-how it looks, the visible charac? teristics that distinguish it from everything else. In the present passage, it means "a sort of thing," a "class"; the connection of this sense with the former one is obvious. The word form will be reserved for eidos throughout this translation. 2. The Greek word is doxa derived from the word meaning "to seem." This is the classic word for "opinion," as opposed to "knowledge." Its sense is sometimes extended to mean "reputation"; for do.Hi means what is popularly held and is based upon the appearance or seeming of things, as opposed to their reality. Hence, although "opinion" and "reputation" are not pejorative terms in themselves, their relation to mere seeming calls them into question; Plato constantly plays upon this ambiguity. In this context Glaucon and Adei? mantus insist on the distinction between opinion or seeming and being, and be? tween the few who are capable of freeing themselves from opinion and the many who are not. 3. The Greek word for "law" is nomos. It can also be translated a'- "con? vention." (A law is not necessarily what is passed by an assembly; it can be an ancestral practice which governs a group of men. In this