represents. Every detail of that world is an effect of the un? derlying causes which can be grasped only by the mind but which can be unearthed only by using all the senses as well. Those causes are truly known only when they are come to by way of the fullest consciousness of the world which they cause. Otherwise one does not know what to look for nor can one know the full power of the causes. A teaching which gives only the principles remains abstract and is mere dogma, for the student himself does not know what the principles explain nor does he know enough of the world to be sure that their explanations are anything more than partial. It is this rich consciousness of the phenomena on which the dialogues insist, and they themselves provide a training in it. The human world is characterized by the distinction between speech and deed, and we all recognize that in order to understand a man or what he says both aspects must be taken into account. Just as no action of a man can be interpreted without hearing what he says about it himself, no speech can be accepted on its face value without comparing it to the actions of its author. The understanding of the man and his speeches .is a result of a combination of the two perspectives. Thrasymachus' blush is as important as any of his theoretical argu? ments. A student who has on his own pieced together the nature of the rhetorician on the basis of his representation in the Republic has grasped his nature with a sureness grounded on a perception of the universal seen through the particular. This is his own insight, and he knows it more authentically and surely than someone who has been given a definition. This joins the concreteness off dfi1e:.t!.sse to the scie e _of l'espr <!,eametrie; it avoids the pitfalls of particularistic, sens1tiv1ty, on t e one hand, and abstractness on the other. Poet and scientist become one, for the talents of both are necessary to the attain? ment of the only end-the truth. The Platonic dialogues are a representation of the world; they are a cosmos in themselves. To interpret them, they must be approached as one would approach the world, bringing with one all one's powers. The only difference between the dialogues and the world is that the dialogues are so constructed that each part is integral1y connected with every other part; there are no meaningless accidents. Plato reproduced the essential world as he saw it. Every word has its place and its mean? ing, and when one cannot with assurance explain any detail, he can know that his understanding is incomplete. When something seems boring or has to be explained away as a convention, it means that the interpreter has given up and has taken his place among the ranks of those Plato intended to exclude from the center of his thought. It is always that which