from here on out everyone despises the opinion?" "Quite so," he said. "Now this is what every soul pursues and for the sake of which it does everything. The soul divines that it is something but is at a loss about it and unable to get a sufficient grasp of just what it is, or to have a stable trust such as it has about the rest. And because this is so, the soul loses any profit there might have been in the rest. Will we say that even those best men in the city, into whose hands we put everything, 505a b C d must be thus in the dark about a thing of this kind and importance?" 506 l ADEIMANTUS/SOCRATES/GLAUCON THE REPUBLIC 506 a "Least of all," he said. "I suppose, at least," I said, "that just and fair things, when it isn't known in what way they are good, won't have gotten themselves a guard? ian who's worth very much in the man who doesn't know this. I divine that no one will adequately know the just and fair things themselves before this is known." "That's a fine divination of yours," he said. "Won't our regime be perfectly ordered if such a guardian, one b. who knows these things, oversees it?" "Necessarily," he said. "But now, Socrates, do you say that the good is knowledge, or pleasure, or something else beside these?" "Here's a real man!" I said. "It's been pretty transparent all along that other people's opinions about these things wouldn't be enough for you." "It doesn't appea_r just to me, Socrates," he said, "to be ready to tell other people's convictions but not your own when you have spent so b. much time occupied with these things." "And what about this?" I said. "Is it your opinion that it's iust to speak about what one doesn't know as though one knew?" "Not at all as though one knew," he said; "however, one ou_ght to be willing to state what one supposes, as one's supposition." "What?" I said. "Haven't you noticed that all opinions without knowledge are ugly? The best of them are blind. Or do men who opine something true without intelligence seem to you any different from blind men who travel the right road?" "No," he said. "Do you want to see ugly things, blind and crooked, when it's b. possibl to hear bright and fair ones from others?" "No, in the name of Zeus, Socrates," said Glaucon. "You're not going to withdraw when you are, as it were, at the end. It will satisfy us even if you go through the good just as you went through justice, mod? eration and the rest." "It will quite satisfy me too, my comrade," I said. "But I fear I'll not be up to it, and in my eagerness I'll cut a graceless figure and have to pay the penalty by suffering ridicule. But, you blessed men, let's b. leave aside for the time being what