that cause the injustice of which Glaucon has spoken, are the result of a mixture of the desires of the body with the desires of the soul. Although the entrance of these de? sires connected with the soul serves to corruptthis first city,Socrates looks on them with more favor than does Rousseau, for they are the first mani? festations of a longing for a natural perfection higher than that of the body; he admits Glaucon's dissatisfaction as a legitimMe objection to this .city. Glaucon is a man of intense desires, and his daring is in the service of those desires. He is, to use Socratic language, an erotic man, one who lusts to have as his own all things which appear beautiful and good. His desires are inchoate expressions of his inclination to a fulfill? ment of which he is as yet unaware. His view of nature is actually a conventional one, ignorant of the distinction between the body and the soul and of the distinct and divergent demands of the two. A natural man, for him, pursues the same goals as do men in conventional so? cieties but without the restraints those societies always impose on their members. He takes ruling to be merely a means to the acquisition of certain things which most men believe to be good and which all serve the body's desires. Actually his desire to rule is the expression of an in? dependently noble impulse which, if fully developed, would find its satisfaction only in contemplation and would wish to overcome the body's desires in order to enjoy its own peculiar pleasure undisturbed. His passionate nature has been tutored by the common opinions about what is good and by the materialist philosophy of which he has heard. Glaucon is thus a dangerous man but also an eminently interest? ing and educable one. His desires lead him to despise law and conven? tion; as long as his limitless desires have as their objects the things he lists as desirable in his speech, he will long for tyranny. But it is pre? cisely this freedom from law and convention combined with his passion that may enable him to climb to the human peaks. As is the case with all the young men most attractive to Socrates, Glaucon has a potential for good or evil. The conduct of his companions Critias and Alcibiades, both subverters of the Athenian democratic regime, caused Socrates to be suspected as a corrupter of the youth. Critias and Alcibiades were Jiberated but not educated. With Glaucon, we have the opportunity of seeing how Socrates educates and his effect on the young. He un? dertakes a perilous activity but one full of promise. Adeimantus is much more moderate than Glaucon, and he is made a pa1i of his brother's education. What he represents is also necessary to the founding of the just city as well as to the philosophic life, both of which are judicious blendings of moderation and courage or manliness. A