is regarded as an excellent one; I follow Burnet in choosing "laws" on the grounds of its intrinsic plausibility. At 366b Adeimantus recapitulates this argument and asserts that it is the cities (instead of the laws) and the poets who tell us of the deliverances from the wrath of the gods. If cities tell anything, it is by their laws. "Laws" in this passage is just a substitute for "cities." Adeimantus undoubtedly refers to parts of the Athenian religious observance. Nomoi, in an alternate meaning, are "religious songs." _ 12. Heroes were the great warrior chieftains of the first ages. They were regarded as divine because they were directly descended from the gods and be? cause they performed superhuman deeds. Some of them were held to be the founders or the ancestors of the founders of the great cities. The citizens were thus descendants of the heroes who provided the link between the cities and the gods. 13. Cf. 338c, note 32. 14. This curious expression occurs only once elsewhere in Plato (at Philebus, 36d). It can mean "that well-known man"; or it could imply that Socrates jokingly calls Glaucon and Adeimancus the sons of Thrasymachus, as Adam suggests. 15. Ariston was Plato's father; the name means "best." 16. This could also mean "more_ important." 17. "Idea" is merely a transliteration of the Greek; it is of the same family as eidos (cf. 357c, note 1) and frequently seems to be identical in meaning in Plato's usage. There is, however, a nuance of difference. Primarily, "idea" is closer to the root verb and accentuates the notion of a thing's being seen or its looks. 18. Cf. 328b, note 6. 19. The superlative of the word for necessity here can be construed to mean: (1) this city is composed of the fewest elements possible; (2) this city is most oppressed by necessity, or is most necessitous; or (3) this city is the proper one, the one most needed. 20. The word is himation and means a specific sort of loose-fitting outer robe usually worn over undergarments. It was an oblong piece of cloth thrown over the left shoulder and fastened over or under the right. It is familiarly seen on Greek statues. 21. The word for "market" is agora. The agora was the central meeting place in the city and the haunt of Socrates, according to his own account. 12. The word for "currency" is nomisma. It means something convention? al and is derived from the word nomos. A strictly literal translation would be "a conventional [or legal] sign of exchange." It is to be noted that the first men? tion of convention, as opposed to nature, within the city has to do with com? merce. 13. The Greek meal was eaten in a reclining posture; usually the individ? uals would support themselves on one elbow. For this purpose the well-to-do Athenian had special low couches with cushions. 14. Or "truthful." 15. The horfite, or "heavy-armed soldier," who carried a large