vi? sion was still dim, before his eyes had recovered, and if the time needed for getting accustomed were not at all short, wouldn't he be 516 a b C d e 517 a SOCRATES/GLAUCON THE REPUBLIC 517. a the source of laughter, and wouldn't it be said of him that he went up and came back with his eyes corrupted, and that it's not even worth trying to go up? And if they were somehow able to get their hands on and kill the man who attempts to release and lead up, wouldn't they kill him?" "No doubt about it," he said. "Well, then, my dear Glaucon," I said, "this image as a whole b must be connected with what was said before. Liken the domain re? vealed through sight to the prison home, and the light of the fire in it to the sun's power; and, in applying the going up and the seeing of what's above to the soul's journey up to the intelligible place, you'll not mistake my expectation, since you desire to hear it. A god doubt? less knows if it happens to be true. At all events, this is the way the phenomena look to me: in the knowable the last thing to be seen, and c. that with considerable effort, is the idea of the good; but once seen, it must be concluded that this is in fact the cause of all that is right and fair in everything-in the visible it gave birth to light and its sovereign; in the intelligible, itself sovereign, it provided truth and intelligence -and that the man who is going to act prudently in private or in public must see it." "I, too, join you in supposing that," he said, "at least in the way I can." "Come, then," I said, "and join me in supposing this, too, and don't be surprised that the men who get to that point aren't willing to mind the business of human beings, but rather that their souls are ai- c. ways eager to spend their time above. Surely that's likely, if indeed this, too, follows the image of which I told before." "Of course it's likely," he said. "And what about this? Do you suppose it is anything surprising," I said, "if a man, come from acts of divine contemplation to the human evils, is graceless and looks quite ridiculous when-with his sight still dim and before he has gotten sufficiently accustomed to the surround? ing darkness-he is compelled in courts or elsewhere to contest about the shadows of the just or the representations of which they are the c. shadows, and to dispute about the way these things are understood by men who have never seen justice itself?" "It's not at all surprising," he said. 517. a "But if a man were intelligent," I said, "he would remember that there are two kinds of disturbances of the eyes, stemming from two sources-when they have been transferred from light to