that craft makes from such things, but their thought is unable to see and delight in the nature of the fair itself." "That," he said, "is certainly so." "Wouldn't, on the other hand, those who are able to approach the fair itself and see it by itself be rare?" b. "Indeed they would." "Is the man who holds that there are fair things but doesn't hold that there is beauty itself and who, if someone leads him to the knowledge of it, isn't able to follow-is he, in your opinion, living in a dream or is he awake? Consider it. Doesn't dreaming, whether one is asleep or awake, consist in believing a likeness of something to be not a likeness, but rather the thing itself to which it is like?" "I, at least," he said, "would say that a man who does that dreams." "And what about the man who, contrary to this, believes that d there is something fair itself and is able to catch sight both of it and of what participates in it, and doesn't believe that what participates is it itself, nor that it itself is what participates-is he, in your opinion, liv? ing in a dream or is he awake?" "He's quite awake," he said. ''Wouldn't we be right in saying that this man's thought, because he knows, is knowledge, while the other's is opinion because he opines?" "Most certainly." "What if the man. of whom we say that he opines but doesn't know, gets harsh with us and disputes the truth of what we say? Will we have some way to soothe and gently persuade him, while hiding from him that he's not healthy?" "We surely have to have a way, at least," he said. "Come, then, and consider what we'll say to him. Or do you want us to question him in this way-saying that if he does know something, ifs not begrudged him, but that we would be delighted to see he knows something-but tell us this: Does the man who knows, know something or nothing? You answer me on his behalf." 'Tll answer," he said, "that he knows something." "Is it something that is or is not?" "That is. How could what is not be known at all?" "So, do we have an adequate grasp of the fact-even if we should consider it in many ways-that what is entirely, is entirely knowable; and what in no way is, is in every way unknowable?" "Most adequate." "All right. Now if there were something such as both to be and not to be, wouldn't it lie between what purely and simply is and what in no way is?" "Yes, it would be between." "Since knowledge depended on what is and ignorance necessarily on what is not, mustn't we also seek something between ignorance and knowledge that depends on that which is in between, if there is in fact any such thing?" "Most certainly." "Do we say opinion is something?" "Of course." "A power39