which describes the being of things and the faculties which apprehend them. It shows that reality extends far beyond anything the practical man ever dreams and that to know it one must use faculties never recognized by the practical man. The divided line is a sketch of a cos? mos which can give ground to the aspirations of the philosophic soul. The splendor of this vision is meant to dazzle the mind's eye as the sun dazzles the body's eye. The erotic Glaucon is told that eros is the soul's longing for completeness, to be full of being, to know everything which is. Philosophy, which was introduced as a means to actualize the city's good and is being used as a means to discover the good, turns out to be the end, the human good. After initiating Glaucon into the mysteries of this divine beauty, Socrates turns to an elaboration of the relationship of the philosophic soul to the city. The divided line described the soul's progress from its lowest level of cognition, imagination, to trust, thought, and finally in? tellection, its highest level. But now Socrates makes clear that this is not a simple movement depending only on talent and effort. There are powerful forces that stand in the way of the philosophic quest. The discovery of that quest has the character of a liberation from bondage. In the most moving of all his many images, Socrates compares our sit? uation to that of prisoners in a cave. We are surrounded by darkness, our only access to ourselves and the world coming from the observation of shadows on the wall. But, although there is darkness, there is also a light in the cave; the pale shadows we possess are made possible by that light. Moreover, a few human beings can emerge from the cave. Our lives are a. combination of ugliness and sublime possibility. The Enlightenment, taken literally, believed that the light could be brought into the cave and the shadows dispelled; men, in that view, could live in perfect light. This Socrates denies; the philosopher does not bring light to the cave, he escapes into the light and can lead a few to it; he is a guide, not a torchbearer. The attempt to illuminate the cave is self-defeating: a part of man craves the shadows. The light would be dimmed arid distorted; it would not provide real clarity with? in the cave. And, at the same time, those who have the urge to ascend to the light would be discouraged from the endeavor by the myth, ap? parently based on reason, that there is no other light to which they can ascend. Thus the only source of liberation and inspiration would disap? pear from the cave. The Enlightenment teaches that the cave can be transformed; Socrates teaches that it must be transcended and that this transcendence can be accomplished only by a few. Only by constant reference back to the divided line can one un? derstand the