significance of the images in the cave and constitute themselves as their defenders and hence the accusers of the philosophers. They are often men of very high intelligence who are forced to hate reason by their un? willingness to renounce the charm and significance of their particular experiences and those of their people. They are enemies of whatever leads in the direction of universality, of anything that would tend to break down the heterogeneity, the particularity and distinctiveness, of the ways to which they are attached. Their dominant trait is piety, which frequently turns into fanaticism. These men are among the leaders of peoples and are protectors of the people's beliefs. This account of their nature acts as a corrective of the view that the people can easily be persuaded to accept philosophers as kings. The other great temptation is that of those who are too easily liberated and do not learn in the cave what must be learned about man \ and the soul. These men dwell on the third level of the line and are best represented by the mathematicians. They escape to a world of univer? sality and are charmed by the competence of their reason to order and explain that world. The homogeneity of numbers which can pply to all things permits them to reduce all the particularities in the world to uni? ties. They tend to forget the questionableness of their own beginnings or principles and the natural heterogeneity of the different kinds of things; they are forgetful of qualitative differences and, hence, of the ideas. As the pious men were hostile to the ideas because the ideas threatened the heterogeneity of their world, these competent men are hostile to the ideas because they threaten the homogeneity of their world. Such were the early philosophers who while watching the sky fell into holes, the men ridiculed by Aristophanes because their science could not understand man, the only being who understands. These two temptations are aided by two of man's most noble arts: poetry and mathematics. Both of these arts are necessary and usefvl, but both tend to emancipate themselves from philosophy and re? enforce the hostility to it. In order to resist these temptations, a man's reason must be both daring and moderate. Socrates, in his reform of philosophy, showed the way in which these virtues must be combined. A man must be daring in his quest for the first causes of all things and in his refusal to accept the sacred opinions of the cave. But he must be moderate and not look directly at the sun for fear of being blinded and losing the distinctions among the various kinds of things. He must look at the reflection of the sun and the things it illuminates; that is, he must not try to apprehend being directly but must try to discern it in the opinions about the various kinds of beings. Dialectic, the art of friendly conversation, as practiced by Socrates, is this combination