dead. And these things should be heard so that in hearing them each of these men will have gotten back the full measure of what the argument owed him." "Do tell," he said, "since there aren't many other things that would be more pleasant to hear." "I will not, however, tell you a story of Alcinous," I said, "but rather of a strong man, Er, son of Armenius, by race a Pam? phylian.13 Once upon a time he died in war; and on the tenth day, when the corpses, already decayed, were picked up, he was picked up in a good state of preservation. Having been brought home, he was about to be buried on the twelfth day; as he was lying on the pyre, he came back to life, and, come back to life, he told what he saw in the other world. He said that when his soul departed, it made a journey in 613 b C d e 614 a b 614 c the company of many, and they came to a certain demonic place, where there were two openings in the earth next to one another, and, again, two in the heaven, above and opposite the others. Between them sat judges who, when they had passed judgment, told the just to continue their journey to the right and upward, through the heaven; and they at? tached signs of the judgments in front of them. The unjust they told to continue their journey to the left and down, and they had behind them d. signs of everything they had done. And when he himself came forward, they said that he had to become a messenger to human beings of the things there, and they told him to listen and to look at everything in the place. He saw there, at one of the openings of both heaven and earth, the souls going away when judgment had been passed on them. As to the other two openings, souls out of the earth, full of dirt and dust, came up from one of them; and down from the other came other souls, e. pure from heaven. And the souls that were ever arriving looked as though they had come from a long journey: and they went away with delight to the meadow, as to a public festival, and set up camp there. All those who were acquaintances greeted one another; and the souls that came out of the earth inquired of the others about the things in the other place, and those from heaven about the things that had happened to those from the earth. And they told their stories to one another, the :15 a ones lamenting and crying, remembering how much and what sort of things they had suffered and seen in the journey under the earth-the journey lasts a thousand years-and those from heaven, in their turn, told of the inconceivable beauty of the experiences and the sights there. Now to go through the many things