his great longings for bodily desires but cannot find satisfaction for them thus understood. His first long speech is another example of this tendency: while assert? ing the naturalness of perfect self-indulgence, he was at the same time insisting on a notion of justice which is the direct opposite of self? indulgence. He is an "idealist," in whatever direction he turns. He ad? mires both the man who is perfectly self-indulgent and the one who is perfectly abstinent; in order to satisfy himself he would have to discover a way of life which combined both great eroticism and great moderation. This is an apparent impossibility, but he has before his eyes a man who has actually succeeded in making such a combination of opposites, and Glaucon need only recognize him for what he is to solve his dilemma concerning the best way of life. Socrates, according to his own account, is an erotic man, but his eras does not lead him, as it did Cephalus, to injure others or take what belongs to them. In order to satisfy his eros, he need not compete with other men to their detri? ment. He has no wealth and no honor; in fact he is despised and believed to be unjust. Yet he is happy. Finally he is executed for his very justice, but this will not cause him to regret his choice of way of life. He fulfills the harsh conditions Glaucon set for the just man, but also lives in great pleasure. He does not live without the ordinary pleasures because he is an ascetic, but because the intensity of his joy in philosophy makes him indifferent to them. Once Glaucon can see the possibility of such a way of life he will be cured of his desire for tyran? ny; already he has somehow divined the presence of such a way of life in Socrates. To be sure, he is not yet conscious of the nature of his own desires, or of desire in general, but in the revolt against the simple city he and Socrates are really allies. Glaucon finds no satisfaction in it; and there could be no Socrates living there, both because it is not advanced enough to give him the basis for a philosophic understanding and be? cause such an idle, unproductive man would starve to death. Perhaps the objections of the two men are ultimately the same: the solution to the political problem embodied in this city is not a human one. A hu? man solution requires the emancipation of desire, for only then can vir? tue arise. Humanity requires a self-overcoming; not because life is essentially struggle, but because man's dual nature is such that the goods of the soul cannot be brought to light without the body's being tempted and, therefore,-without a tyranny of soul over body. (372e-376c) Socrates agrees to join Glaucon in observing a feverish city, as opposed to the healthy one they had just been observ? ing. One would think