city but not of it; but that father's son becomes a part of the city by adapting himself to it. The timocrat's son, in turn, is corrupted when he sees his father mistreated by the people. He was too proud to court the people and lost everything. Fear becomes the son's motivation; he abandons pride, for it is dangerous. His father was spiritual1y dependent on the people; his condemnation ruins his life. The son recognizes that the father's ap? parent independence was groundless. Now life, bodily life, becomes dom? inant. The only source of security is in money which can guarantee the means of life. The father had money and did not pay sufficient at? tention to the need he had for it. Spiritedness cannot maintain itself against this awareness. The son is completely dependent on things out? side himself, and desire has become the principle of his life. The exam? ple of Socrates teaches that a man should live in the city like a sovereign nation unto himself, with only such relations to other citizens as are dictated by a defensive prudence. In order to show how this oligarchic man's son becomes a demo? cratic man, Socrates makes a distinction between the necessary and unnecessary desires, which explains the difference between the oligarch and the democrat. The necessary desires are those which contribute to the maintenance of life; the unnecessary ones are those that we could do without. Socrates appears to inciude even sex in this latter category. Presumably because of his father's success at providing money, the democratic son has devoted himself to many desires and not limited himself to the necessary ones as did his austere father. On the basis of Socrates' description, it is not at all clear why the democratic son should be considered inferior to his oligarchic father who has spent his life pursuing money, despoiling others. The young democrat seems to be a rather charming, if aimless, fellow. It is easy to see why a demo? cratic regime might well be considered inferior to an oligarchic one, but this would only serve to show the difference between the solid life of the city and the agreeable life of man. Neither the oligarchic nor democratic regime or man is devoted to any virtue, but at least the democratic man's principle does not preclude the practice of virtue. As has been observed, this judgment against the democratic man is part of a general condemnation of desire leading to the condemnation of the tyrant, who is taken to be the man of desire. The desires are interpreted as the bodily desires which, when emancipated, are infinite and make man's needs infinite. Their moderation is necessary both for political stability and for the possibility of philosophizing. For the many, the praise of desire is the praise of bodily desire, and this must be con? trolled for the sake of both philosophy and politics. But this is only a partial account, for among the objects that the disorganized