was, I believe, the word by which we previously distinguished it. But, in my opinion, there is no place for dispute about a name when a consideration is about things so great as those lying before us." "No, there isn't," he said.25 "Then it will be acceptable," I said, "just as before, to call the first part knowledge, the second thought, the third trust, and the fourth imagination; and the latter two taken together, opinion, and the former two, intellection. And opinion has to do with coming into being and in? tellection with being; and as being is to coming into being, so is in? tellection to opinion; and as intellection is to opinion, so is knowledge to trust and thought to imagination. But as for the proportion between the things over which these are set and the division into two parts of each-the opinable and the intelligible-let's let that go, Glaucon, so as not to run afoul of arguments many times longer than those that have been gone through." "Well," he said, "about the rest, insofar as I am able to follow, I share your opinion." "And do you also call that man dialectical who grasps the reason for the being of each thing? And, as for the man who isn't able to do so, to the extent he's not able to give an account of a thing to himself and another, won't you deny that he has intelligence with respect to it?" "How could I affirm that he does?" he said. "Isn't it also the same with the good? Unless a man is able to separate out the idea of the good from all other things and distinguish it in the argument, and, going through every test, as it were in bat? tle-eager to meet the test of being rather than that of opinion-he comes through all this with the argument still on its feet; you will deny that such a man knows the good itself, or any other good? And if he somehow lays hold of some phantom of it, you will say that he does so by opinion and not knowledge, and that, taken in by dreams and slum? bering out his present life, before waking up here he goes to Hades and falls finally asleep there?" "Yes, by Zeus;" he said. "I shall certainly say all that." "Then, as for those children of yours whom you are rearing and educating in speech, if you should ever rear them in deed, I don't sup? pose that while they are as irrational as lines26 you would let them rule in the city and be the sovereigns of the greatest things." "No, I wouldn't," he said. "Then will you set it down as a law to them that they pay special attention to the education on the basis of which they will be able to question and answer most knowledgeably?" 533d e 534a b C d 534 e "I shall join with you," he said, "in setting down