is apologon which is very close to apology. The four books of the Odyssey (IX-XII) in which Odysseus tells Alcinous, King of the Phaeacians, of his adventures were traditionally known as The Story of Alci? nous. In this part of the Odyssey the descent to Hades is recounted. Moreover, "A story of Alcinous" became a proverbial expression for a long-winded tale. (/7) The word for "strong" is alki111011, differing only by the me.a.sure of an III in? stead of an n from the genitive form of the king's name used here, Alkinou. In itself this is a play on sounds; but, further, if one were to translate the root words of the name, the sentence would read: "... a story of a man not strong of mind, but strong...."(Cf. 494 and note 13; 509d and note 35.) 5. Ardiaeus is apparently of Socrates' invention. 6. Er has reached the extremes of the cosmos, and he sees there the structure of the heavens. The whorls represent the spheres of the fixed stars, the planets, the sun, and the moon. The motions of these whorls account for tt.?}::" '-"tlie visible movements of those bodies; their color, brightness, and distance from each other are accounted for by the description of the lips of the whorls. Hence the whole is organized rationally and is knowable; and in this way the particular fates of individuals gain significance by their connection with the cosmic necessities. 5. They are the Fates (Moirai): Lachesis (dispenser oflots) holds sway over the past; Clotho (spinner), the present; and Atropos (inevitable or un? tumable), the future. 6. Orpheus and Thamyras were both singers who ended badly. Or? pheus, after losing Eurydice, was tom apart by Thracian women; Thamyras was deprived of his sight and his power of song by the Muses whom he rivalled. The unhappy fates of Ajax and Agamemnon are recounted by Sophocles and Aeschylus. [Plutarch remarks, (Quaestiones conviviales, IX, 5.3, 1740e-f) that Ajax is the twentieth here because he was the twentieth soul encountered by Odysseus in Hades (Odyssey, XI, 543).] Atalanta's story has several versions, some with happy endings, others with unhappy endings. At all events, she was an Artemis-like woman, a hunter and runner, beautiful and chaste, although she finally married. Epeius was the builder of the Trojan Horse. For Thersites, cf. Iliad, II, 212 ff. 7. The Greek words for "threads" and "irreversible" call to mind the etymological senses of Clotho and Atropos, respectively (cf. 617c, note 16) 8. Lethe means "forgetfulness." Etymologically the word for "truth" (aletheia) can be understood to be its negation. In the Phaedrus there is a plain of Aletheia (248b). 9. The last words (from "to ... ") form a line of iambic verse. 10. "Saved,, in this context has a double sense. Superficially it means that Er came back, so the tale was preserved. But it also means that it has been given meaning, that it has been supported in a deeper sense that gives the sur? face plausibility.