him of what he thinks belongs to him or giving him something to which he appears to have no claim. In this reformulation, doing good to friends and harm to ene? mies is equivalent to giving to each what is fitting. Polemarchus meant that one gives to friends the things they want and denies to enemies the things they want. Socrates changes Polemarchus' meaning by concen? trating not on the wants of men but on what is objectively proper for them. A sick friend is justly treated when given medicine whether he likes it or not This shift in emphasis implies that the primary concern of the just man must be something Polemarchus has never considered: what counts is not so much the disposition to give the good things to friends, but knowing what those good things are. Justice must be some kind of knowledge. Therefore Socrates turns to the most evident, perhaps the only sure, models of knowledge of what is fitting-the arts. A doctor wishes to give what is fitting to bodies and knows what is fitting and how to give it. The just man, if he is to succeed in his intention, must also possess an art. Now the problem becomes to identify the art of justice which, to put it mildly, common sense does not apprehend so quickly as it does the other arts. Formally, it must be the art which gives good to friends and harm to enemies, just as cookery gives seasoning to foods. However, it immediately comes to light that justice is not the only art capable of benefiting friends and harming enemies. Medicine and navigation are of even greater use than justice to men who are sick or sailing. As a matter of fact, each of the arts aims at some good, and hence each is capable of working the benefactions or injuries called for by the definition of justice. The question is to find what justice does that no other art does, and this is obviously a difficult, or, rather, an im? possible, task. Polemarchus suggests that justice is most useful and in? dispensable in the affairs of war, and, in peacetime, in keeping money deposits. This response is more helpful for learning about Polemarchus' view of justice than for solving the problem of justice's subject matter. The connection of war and money is obvious; and the kind of good things Polemarchus means and the sense in which the just citizen is a warrior emerge more clearly. But, as he does in the other cases, Soc? rates could easily show that a skilled soldier is a better partner in war than a just man, and a trained banker a better partner in peacetime than a just man. Socrates has indicated by the examples he uses that, for Polemarchus at least, justice is concerned with the acquisition and distribution of good things in communities of men while keeping off the outsiders (332c-d, 333a, 333b). The extraordinary result of this conversation is that