said. "It's this way," I said. "In my opinion, we have been saying and hearing it all along without learning from ourselves that we were in a way saying it." "A long prelude," he said, "for one who desires to hear." "Listen whether after all I make any sense," I said. "That rule we set down at the beginning as to what must be done in everything when we were founding the city-this, or a certain form of it, is, in my opin? ion, justice. Surely we set down and often said, if you remember, that each one must practice one of the functions in the city, that one for which his nature made him naturally most fit." "Yes, we were saying that." "And further, that justice is the minding of one's own business and not being a busybody, this we have both heard from many others and have often said ourselves." "Yes, we have." "Well, then, my friend," I said, "this-the practice of minding one's own business-when it comes into being in a certain way, is probably justice. Do you know how I infer this?" "No," he said, "tel1 me." "In my opinion," I said, "after having considered moderation, courage, and prudence, this is what's left over in the city; it provided the power by which all these others came into being; and, once having come into being, it provides them with preservation as long as it's in the city. And yet we were saying that justice would be what's left over from the three if we found them." 432 C d e 433 a b C [ 111 J 433 C d e 434 a b "Yes, we did," he said, "and it's necessarily so:" "Moreover," I said, "if one had to judge which of them by coming to be will do our city the most good, it would be a difficult judgment. Is it the unity of opinion among rulers and ruled? Or is it the coming into being in the soldiers of that preserving of the lawful opinion as to which things are terrible and which are not? Or is it the prudence and guardianship present in the rulers? Or is the city done the most good by the fact that-in the case of child, woman, slave, freeman, craftsman, ruler and ruled-each one minded his own business and wasn't a busybody?" "It would, of course," he said, "be a difficult judgment." "Then, as it seems, with respect to a city's virtue, this power that consists in each man's minding his own business in the city is a rival to wisdom, moderation and courage." "Very much so," he said. "Wouldn't you name justice that which is the rival of these others in contributing to a city's virtue?" "That's entirely certain." "Now consider if it will seem the same from this viewpoint too. Will you assign the judging oflawsuits in the city to the rulers?" "Of course." "Will they have any other aim in their judging than that