all things in com? mon-including women and children-for this total lack of privacy means that a man cannot have a life of his ovm. Therefore a man's soul must be satisfied by the community or not be satisfied at all. They ac? cuse Socrates of a crime, of doing injustice by robbing them of a part of the discussion. And they are right. Socrates wanted to do his duty to men and the city without devoting himself to them completely; he was keeping his way of life private. All the others could find their satisfac? tion and dignity in the city that has been established. But can Socrates? He is compelled to appear before the bar of that city; here he cannot give a mythical account of his life (as he did in the Apology) but must explain himself as he really is. This city claims to be the greatest good for men, to call for the highest loyalty, to satisfy the human potential. Now it must be expanded to see if it can include Socrates. This is the crucial test, for, if the highest activity of the city is identical to the highest activity of man, there is no justification for going beyond the city, for rebellion in heart or deed. The status of the city depends on this attempt. Now Socrates proceeds to try to make public or common every? thing that remains private. Full communism, from Socrates' point of view the only form of just regime, requires not only the abolition of private property but also the sharing of women and children and the rule of philosophers. Women, family, and philosophy are all of the do? main of the erotic, which seems to be what is most intransigently private. Up to now what Socrates has suggested has been severe, but not outlandish. The city is merely an improved Sparta, correcting its worst vices, while preserving its virtues. He has adopted the opinions of his well-born Laconophile interlocutors; Adeimantus is attached to Sparta because it is austere, secure, and aristocratic; Glaucon because it is warlike. Socrates has improved on the Spartan regime by stopping the ruling class from persecuting the poor, by suppressing the secret lust for wealth, and by moderating the exclusive orientation to war. At the same time, he has softened the warlike temper of the men and given them the possibility of a certain openness. Now he must take advantage of that possibility and attempt to infuse the Athenian element into the Spartan regime. In order to complete his work, he will have to face three fantastic waves which threaten to engulf him. The first two waves-the same way of life for women as men and the community of wives and children-have never existed in reality or in the thoughts of serious men; they are the absurd conceits of a comic poet who only sug? gested them in order to ridicule them. And the last wave, the rule of philosophers, is a total innovation, beyond