charlatan who deceives men and who has no claim to wisdom whatsoever. However, a closer examina? tion of the passages cited will show that Socrates' point here is subtler than immediately appears. The man who carries the mirror around will not catch the reflections of some of the things which appeared in the sophist's mirror: no ordinary mirror can reflect the gods and the things in Hades; the sun would have to take their place. Only the poets and the painters can reproduce the gods and the life after death, and they have no models for their imitation of them in the works of other craftsmen or in the visible universe. The poets are the authentic, the only, teachers about the gods.0 The great mystery is how they find out about them, how they are able to present them to men. Socratic poetry "The difference between the mirror held to nature and the product of the imitative sophist is parallel to the difference between the lowest level of the divided line-where things are seen reflected in water or on smooth surfaces -and the wall of the cave--where the prisoners see the reflections of arti? facts, only some of which have natural models. The prisoners' problem is ascending toward truth. The cause of their errors is connected with this mix? ture of natural and man-made things. In this discussion of poetry Socrates elaborates that problem and reveals the essential character of the cave. also must tell about the gods and the afterlife. This does not constitute the difference between the old poetry and the new; the gods are the center, not to say the essence, of both. The real quarrel between Soc? rates and Homer concerns the way in which one, finds out about the gods, or the view of the whole which causes a poet to present the gods in one way rather than another. Socrates' criticism of Homeric poetry is really a study of the principles of his theogony or theology, a study of the nature of the Homeric gods. Socrates' first step in his analysis of Homeric wisdom is to attempt to establish the nature of a poem. A poem, he asserts, like a painting, is a particular being which has a curious sort of existence. It represents other particular beings which are beings because they, in tum; partake of a single, self-subsistent being. Poetry is dependent on the world around us; it does not make its objects, and its strength comes from the depth of its grasp of those objects. Socrates makes the point that Homer's book presupposes knowledge of the book of the world, which Homer does not make; he is not creative and must be judged by that external standard. Poetry is imitation. Now Socrates takes the strange step of testirig the poet's knowledge by comparing it to the knowledge of the artisan who makes the thing imitated. This procedure has a kind of surface plausibility, in that the poem does indeed imitate the objects