best regime is that those who have compelled the philosophers to become kings must abandon their city, lands, and children, leaving no one over ten years of age in the city, so that an entirely new formation of the soul can be giv? en to the children. Socrates blandly announces this condition as though the renunciation of all they live for by the whole citizen body were easy to accomplish. And it would have to be a voluntary renun? ciation because the philosophers have not yet educated a defense force with which to compel the people. The perfect city is revealed to be a perfect impossibility. What then was the use of spending so much time and effort on a city that is impossible? Precisely to show its impossibility. This was not just any city, but one constructed to meet all the demands of justice. Its impossibility demonstrates the impossibility of the actualization of a just regime and hence moderates the moral indignation a man might experience at the sight of less-than-perfect regimes. The extreme spirit of reform or revolution loses its ground if its end is questionable. If the infinite longing for justice on earth is merely a dream or a prayer, the shedding of blood in its naP1e turns from idealism into criminality. The revolutions of Communism or Fascism are made in the name of perfect regimes which are to be their consequence. What matter if a few million die now, if one is sure that countless generations of mankind will enjoy the fruits of justice? Socrates thinks about the end which is ultimately aimed at by all reformers or revolutionaries but to which they do not pay sufficient attention. He shows what a regime would have to be in order to be just and why such a regime is impossible. Regimes can be improved but not perfected; injust1ce will always re? main. The proper spirit of reform, then, is moderation. Socrates con? structs his utopia to point up the dangers of what we would call utop? ianism; as such it is the greatest critique of political idealism ever written. The Republic serves to moderate the extreme passion for political justice by showing the limits of what can be demanded and ex? pected of the city; and, at the same time, it shows the direction in which the immoderate desires can be meaningfully channeled. At the beginning of the dialogue, Glaucon and Adeimantus set the severest standards for political justice. In order to try to meet those standards, they would have to establish a terrible tyranny and would_fail never? theless. Socrates leads them first to the fulfillment of their wishes, and then beyond, to a fullfillment which does not depend on the transforma? tion of human nature. The striving for the perfectly just city puts unreasonable and despotic demands on ordinary men, and it abuses and misuses the best men. There is gentleness in Socrates' treatment of men, and his vision is never clouded by the blackness of