But if a man stubs his toe, no other man can share his pain. Thus the unity of the city depends on that same forget? ting of the body which has been a golden thread running through the whole discourse. The body is what stands in the way of devotion to the common good; it is the source of the desire and the need for privacy. The problem is that the body's demands lead to the establishment of an entire way of life and a set of beliefs contrary to those which would be most conducive to the perfection of a man's soul or the pursuit of truth. The way of life based on the body is directed to acquisition of the means of preserving and gratifying the body. The set of beliefs which protects that way of life concerns private property, the family, the civil order, and even the gods. Although these beliefs only serve the selfish interests related to the body and do not express the truth about nature, they are enormously respectable. Men hold strongly to them, and it seems very important that they be maintained. These beliefs fetter men's minds; they are the conventions which veil nature. Socrates is here trying to construct a political regime which is not dominated by such conventions, one in which philosophy does not have to be a private, hidden activity because it contradicts the authoritative prejudices. Aristophanes can help us to understand the character of these prejudices. In the Clouds, Strepsiades bums Socrates' dwelling when he discovers that Socrates had taught his son things which threat? en the sanctity of the family. Only a man who did not care too much about the family would be prepared to tolerate Socrates' teaching. Soc? rates has elaborated a regime in which no citizen has a family and thus no one can be unreasonable in the name of the family. Socrates' demand that the city be unified is identical to the demand that the body and its extensions-property and the family-be perfectly mastered. If that mastery is impossible, so is the city. We would learn from this fact that philosophy is essentially a private activity and that the city must always be ruled by prejudices. Moreover, from the example of the city in speech, a man would learn what he must overcome in himself in order to become a philosopher. Socrates forgets the body in order to make clear its importance. To put the matter more simply: only in a city such as Socrates and his companions have constructed will no obloquy be attached to Soc? rates' deplorable neglect of his family and his indifference to the labor necessary to making a comfortable living. This city, which is constructed in response to Aristophanes' charge that Socrates had to break the law in order to feed and clothe himself and in order to replenish his society of male companions, will take care of him, and his children will be tal? ented youths of the