friends and harm to enemies?" "In my opinion." "With respect to disease and health, who is most able to do good to sick friends and bad to enemies?" "A doctor." "And with respect to the danger of the sea, who has this power over those who are sailing?" "A pilot." "And what about the just man, in what action and with respect to what work is he most able to help friends and harm enemies?" "In my opinion it is in making war and being an ally in battle." "All right. However, to men who are not sick, my friend Polemar- chus, a doctor is useless." "True.'' "And to men who are not sailing, a pilot." "Yes." "Then to men who are not at war, is the just man useless?" "Hardly so, in my opinion." "Then is justice also useful in peacetime?" "It is useful." "And so is farming, isn't it?" "Yes."' "For the acquisition of the fruits of the earth?" "Yes.,,. "And, further, is shoemaking also useful?" "Yes." "You would say, I suppose, for the acquisition of shoes?" "Certainly." "What about justice then? For the use or acquisition of what would you say it is useful in peacetime?" "Contracts, Socrates." "Do you mean by contracts, partnerships,23 or something else?" "Partnerships, of course." "Then is the just man a good and useful partner in setting down draughts, or is it the skilled player of draughts?"24 "The skilled player of draughts." "In setting down bricks and stones, is the just man a more useful and better partner than the housebuilder?" "Not at all." "But in what partnership then is the just man a better partner than the harp player, just as the harp player is better than the just man when one has to do with notes?" "In money matters, in my opinion." "Except perhaps in using money, Polemarchus, when a horse must be bought or sold with money in partnership; then, I suppose, the expert on horses is a better partner. Isn't that so?" 332 e 333 a b C 333C "It looks like it." "And, further, when it's a ship, the shipbuilder or pilot is better?' "It seems so." "Then, when gold or silver must be used in partnership, in what case is the just man more useful than the others?" "When they must be deposited and kept safe, Socrates." "Do you mean when there is no need to use them, and they are left lying?" "Certainly." d. "Is it when money is useless that justice is useful for it?" 'Tm afraid so." "And when a pruning hook must be guarded, justice is useful both in partnership and in private; but when it must be used, vine-cul? hue." "It looks like it." "Will you also assert that when a shield and a lyre must be guarded and not used, justice is useful; but when they must be used, the soldier's art and the musician's art are useful?" "Necessarily." "And with respect to everything else as well, is justice useless