the sun. They must live in the city, as must most men. But he wishes them to see the city in the light of what they have learned in their ascent; their vision of their world must be transformed. Adeiman? tus must no longer see philosophy as an enemy of the city, and Glaucon must no longer be tempted by tyranny. Socrates accomplishes this by taking the highest kind of individual and constructing a regime around him. He thus appeals to Adeimantus, by giving political status to that human type, and to Glaucon, by showing him a ruler for whom the practice of justice appears to be an unqualified good. The young man who wishes to live well will ptay for that city and its way of life. But this ultimately means that he will, in the absence of that regime, desire to live a private life, for that good life is shown to be possible without the regime; it does not depend, as do the other ways of life, on ruling in the city. It is self-sufficient and always availab]e to him who chooses it. Socrates' political science, paradoxically, is meant to show the superiority of the private life. The most important point made in this section is that while the best city exists only in myth, the best man ex? ists actually. Socrates' account of the regimes diverges from common sense in that he insists that the best regime came first and that after it there is a necessary downward movement of decay to timocracy, oligarchy, democracy, and finally, tyranny. This is supported neither by argument nor by history. Aristotle in his discussion of the various regimes does not argue that one regime must necessarily emerge from another; worse regimes can certainly precede better _ones. The argument of the Republic itself has indicated that the regime of the philosophers, or aristocracy, is not first but necessarily last in time. It is furthest away from innocence; it requires experience; it is the result of a great and re? cent progress in understanding, the discovery of philosophy. As has been suggested, Socrates, contrary to fact, places the best regime first in or? der that the quest for wisdom not appear to be in conflict with the political prejudice in favor of the ancestral. Aristophanes, in the Clouds, accused Socrates of teaching wise sons to beat unwise fathers. If Socrates describes the decay of regimes correctly, there would never be a legitimate ground for beating one's father; in each successive downward step the son is inferior to the father. The quest for self? improvement would be identical to respect for one's forebears. More? over, the belief in perfect beginnings here expressed is the response to Glaucon's suggestion that civil society is a mere compact be? tween men who prefer to do, rather than suffer, inj_ustice, and who joined together only because of the suffering involved in their original estate. In the account given by Socrates, the foundings or origins of civil