"Not at all." "Do you see," I said, "it wasn't bad when we said that the very elements of the philosophic nature, when they get a bad rearing, are, after all, in a way the cause of its being exiled from the practice, and so are the so-called goods-wealth and all equipment of the sort." "No, it wasn't," he said. "What was said is right." "Then, you surpnsmg man," I said, "such is the extent and character of this destruction and corruption of the best nature with respect to the best pursuit. And such a nature is a rare occurrence in any event, we say. And particularly from these men come those who do the greatest harm to cities and private men, as well as those who do the good, if they chance to be drawn in this direction. No little nature ever does anything great either to private man or city." "Very true," he said. "So these men, for whom philosophy is most suitable, go thus into exile and leave her abandoned and unconsummated. They themselves live a life that isn't suitable or true; while, after them, other unworthy men come to her-like an orphan bereft of relatives-and disgrace her. Th se are the ones who attach to her reproaches such as even you say are alleged by the men who reproach her-namely, that of those who have intercourse with her, some are worthless and the many worthy of many bad things." "Yes," he said, "that is what is said." "And what is said is fitting," I said. "For other manikins see that this place has become empty although frill of fine names and preten? sions; and, just like those who run away from prisons to temples, these men too are overjoyed to leap out of the arts into philosophy, those who happen to be subtlest in their little art. For, although philosophy is faring thus, it still retains a more magnificent station in comparison with the other arts at least. Aiming at this, many men with imperfect natures-just as their bodies are mutilated by the arts and crafts, so too their souls are doubled up and spoiled as a result of being in me? chanical occupations-or isn't that necessary?"14 "Quite so," he said. "Do you suppose," I said, "that they are any different to see than a little, bald-headed worker in bronze who has gotten some silver, and, newly released from bonds, just washed in a bathhouse, wearing a new? made cloak and got up like a bridegroom, is about to marry his master's daughter because he's poor and destitute?"15 "Hardly at all different," he said. "What sort of things are such men likely to beget? Aren't they bastard and ordinary?" "Quite necessarily." "And what about this? When men unworthy of education come near her and keep her company in an unworthy way, what sort of no? tions and opinions will we say they beget? Won't they be truly fit to be called sophisms,16 connected with nothing genuine