be good. Nevertheless, a man who loved the better children of others more than his own inferior children would be considered monstrous. The blood ties bind and have a ? morality of their own which keeps the mind from wandering freely over the world; they stand in the way of natural fulfillment. Men are usually tom between ,duty to their own and duty to the good. The communism of women and children, by suppressing family ties, serves to eman? cipate men's Jove of the good. If the family is to become the city, and the city is to be self? sufficient, the most sacred and awesome of prohibitions must be defied. There must be incest in this city. By law all members of the city are the closest of relatives, and they will not know their natural relatives. To most men nothing could seem more terrible than incest; so powerful is theprohibition against incest that it even removes desire where objects of satisfaction are closest at hand; it is accepted without question and hardly needs to be taught. The crime of Oedipus and his tragedy, the archetype of tragedy, concerns this prohibition. When asked about the problem, Socrates treats it as though he were speaking of regulations no more controversial than those concerning rivers and harbors. He thus justifies the accusation of Aristophanes: he is the enemy of the family and its fundamental principle. The particular crime of Oedipus is in? deed prohibited here, but only because he and Jocasta would not be of the proper age for breeding. When Socrates says that in special instances, and if the Delphic oracle permits, brothers and sisters can wed, he understates the case. As Glaucon sees (463c), Socrates' prescriptions about the family actually mean that everybody in the city is closely related; there are no cousins; everyone is at least the brother or sister of everyone else. Examination of the marriage regulations would suggest that it is unlikely that even more serious breaches of the incest prohibition can be avoided in this city. The relationships in the entire city will be as tangled as those in the family of Oedipus. And Soc? rates asks for divine sanction for such incestuous loves. Given that there will be many erotic improprieties in this city-as Aristotle makes clear (Politics II, iv)-it seems that Socrates' approach to the matter is quite light-hearted. What, then, is this radical policy meant to achieve? Socrates argues that the city will be one, and the demon of private, selfish in? terest will be exorcised. He compares the city to a body all parts of which share the same pleasures and pains. This city does not attain to that degree of unity, however, for one thing cannot be made public: the body. Everyone's body is his own. The minds could conceivably be made to think similar thoughts (a possibility not so obnoxious as it sounds; for minds contemplating the same truths are, for that moment and in that way, the same).