back a complete tyrant?" "Plainly." "But if they are unable to exile him or to kill him by slandering him to the city, they plot to do away with him stealthily by a violent death." "At least," he said, "that's what usually happens." "All those, then, whose careers have progressed to this stage now hit upon the notorious tyrannical request-to ask the people for some bodyguards to save the people's defender for them." "Quite so," he said. "Then I suppose the people grant the request, frightened for him and sure of themselves." "Quite so." "Consequently when a man sees this, one who possesses money and is charged not only with having money but also with hating the people, he, my comrade, then follows the oracle that was given to Croesus and 565e 566 a b C Flees along many-pebbled Hermus; He doesn't stay nor is he ashamed to be a coward."27 "For he couldn't be ashamed a second time," he said. "And I suppose," I said, "that if he's caught, he's given death." "Necessarily." "And surely it's plain that this leader himself doesn't lie 'great in his greatness' on the ground, but, having cast down many others, stands d in the chariot of the city, now a perfected tyrant instead of a leader."28 "Of course," he said. ,t "Then let us," I said, "go through the happiness of the man and the city in which such a mortal comes to be." "Most certainly," he said, "let's go through it." "In the first days of his time in office," I said, "doesn't he smile at and greet whomever he meets, and not on]y deny he's a tyrant but prom- 566 e 567 a b C d ise much in private and public, and grant freedom from debts and distribute land to the people and those around himself, and pretend to be gracious and gentle to all?" "Necessarily," he said. "But I suppose that when he is reconciled with some of his ene? mies outside and has destroyed the others, and there is rest from con? cern with them, as his first step he is always setting some war in mo? tion, so that the people will be in need of a leader." "That's likely." "And, also, so that, becoming poor from contributing money, they will be compelled to stick to their daily business and be less inclined to plot against him?" "Plainly." "Then, too, I suppose-if he suspects certain men of having free thoughts and not putting up with his ling-so that he can have a pre? text for destroying them by giving them to the enemy? For all these reasons isn't it necessary for a tyrant always to be stirring up war?" "It is necessary." "And is, consequently, all this activity a preparation for being more hateful to the citizens?" "Of course." "Also, don't some of those who helped in setting him up and are in power-the manliest among them-speak frankly to him and to one another, criticizing what is