and the good-infinite themes which it now becomes necessary to understand if one wishes to under? stand justice. Polerriarchus, of course, does not recognize what has hap? pened, for he does not see any problem in knowing what is good for a friend. Socrates explains Polemarchus' definition of justice-doing good, and no harm, to friends-in terms of the example he used to embarrass Cephalus. A thing is not owed if it works harm to render it. But Soc? rates changes the thing deposited in this case: it is money, not a weap? on. This small change is most revealing, for it broadens the scope of the exceptions and changes their sense. Cephalus would not return the weapon because its owner might hurt him with it; his justification is the selfish one of his own defense; justice must be practiced until it is manifestly harmful to 'oneself. Money in the hands of a madman is not so manifestly dangerous to another man as is a weapon. If one withholds his money, the justification for so doing is not likely to be that he will harm others but rather that he will harm himself. Now the focus of attention is on what it does to the one who receives rather than to the one who gives, a question to which Cephalus was profoundly in? different. Cephalus was interested in what justice would profit himself, Polemarchus is interested in its advantage for others. He is really much more of a gentleman than his father. He presents the other side of the problem of justice-the good it does the community, as opposed to the individual. The relation between justice conceived as one's own good and justice conceived as the common good is the abiding concern of the Republic; Cephalus and Polemarchus represent the two poles. Also at this point, with the recognition that a man's property in money only ex? tends so far as he can use that money well-only so far as is good for him-private property becomes radically questionable. After more prodding by Socrates, Polemarchus is led to complete his definition by asserting that enemies are owed harm.Justice is benefiting friends and harming enemies. This is Polemarchus' and the gentleman's view of justice. As Lessing approvingly put it, "for the ancient Greeks moral greatness consisted in a love of friends that is as constant as the hatred of one's enemies is unchanging." Although Socrates finds this understanding of justice ultimately inadequate, he clearly agrees with Lessing that it is the formula for gentlemanly and heroic rn;>bility and higher than most alternatives. It sounds harsh to our ears, for it is far from the morality of universal love to which we are accustomed, and we must make great efforts if we are to understand its dignity. That dignity consists in unswerving loyalty, loyalty to the first, most obvious attachments a man forms-loyalty to his family and his city. Our ad? miration for this character is manifest in our horror at the man who