the largest whorl is multicolored; that 17. a of the seventh, brightest; that of the eighth gets its color from the sev? enth's shining on it; that of the second and the fifth are like each other, yellower than these others; the third has the whitest color; the fourth is reddish; and the sixth is second in whiteness. The whole spindle is turned in a circle with the same motion, but within the revolving whole the seven inner circles revolve gently in the opposite direction from the whole; of them, the eighth goes most quickly, second b. and together with one another are the seventh, sixth and fifth. Third in swiftness, as it looked to them, the fourth circled about; fourth, the third; and fifth, the second. And the spindle turned in the lap of Necessity. Above, on each of its circles, is perched a Siren, accompany? ing its revolution, uttering a single sound, one note; from all eight is produced the accord of a single harmony. Three others are seated c. round about at equal distances, each on a throne. Daughters of Necessity, Fates-Lachesis, Clotho, and Atropos16---clad in white with wreaths on their heads, they sing to the Sirens' harmony, Lachesis of what has been, Clotho of what is, and Atropos of what is going to be. And Clotho puts her right hand to the outer revolution of the spindle and joins in turning it, ceasing from time to time; and Atropos with her left hand does the same to the inner ones; but Lachesis puts one hand to one and the other hand to the other, each in turn. d. "Now, when they arrived, they had to go straight to Lachesis. A certain spokesman first marshaled them at regular distances from each other; then, he took lots and patterns of lives from Lachesis' lap, and went up to a high platform and said, 'This is the speech of Necessity's maiden daughter, Lachesis. Souls that live a day, this is the beginning of another death bringing cycle for the mortal race. A demon will not e. select you, but you will choose a demon. Let him who gets the first lot make the first choice of a life to which he will be bound by necessity. Virtue is without a master; as he honors or dishonors her, each will have more or less of her. The blame belongs to him who chooses; god is blameless.' "When he had said this, he cast the lots among them all, and each picked up the one that fell next to him-except for Er who wasn't per? mitted to do so. To the man who picked it up it was plain what number he had drawn. After this, in turn, he set the patterns of the lives on the [ ,300 J ground before them; there were far more than there were souls present. 618 a There were all sorts; lives of all animals, and, in particular, all the varieties of human lives.