of political science cannot be carried out without sacrifice of the dearest convictions and interests of most men; these sacrifices are so great that to many they do not seem worthwhile: one of the most civilized cities which has ever existed thought it better to sacrifice philosophy in the person of Socrates rather than face the al? ternative he presented. This is why philosophy needs an apology; it is a dangerous and essentially questionable activity. Socrates knew that his interests were not, and could not be, the interests of most men and their cities. We frequently do not see this and assume that his execution was a result of the blind prejudices of the past. Therefore we do not see the true radicalness of the philosophic life. The Republic is the best an? tidote to our prejudice. The proper starting point for the study of So? cratic philosophy is the nonphilosophic orientation of the city within which philosophy must take its place. Hostility to philosophy is the natural condition of man and the city. Socrates, in admitting his guilt, will show what higher concerns pardon him for it. (327a--328b) As in the Apology the city compels Socrates to speak and defend himself, so in the Republic a group of men compels Socrates to remain with them and finally to give an account of himself. Apparently he does not wish to do so; other activities might be more to his taste, and he would like to hurry to them. But these men who accost him have power, and Socrates must adjust to them. If he cannot carry on his preferred activities unimpeded by the need for a compromise with his fellows, he must earn their good will and teach them to respect his tastes. Otherwise he would have to give up his way of life. He will only give as much of himself as is required to regain his freedom. This situation is a paradigm of the relation of the philosopher to the city. The difference between the Republic and the Apology is that the threat of compulsion used in the Republic is only playful while that of the Athenian Jaw court in the Apology is in deadly earnest. In the Apology Socrates is condemned to death because a compromise acceptable to the people would have meant his spiritual death; in the Republic, dealing with a different audience, he emerges as the ruler of a tamed city which may not understand him but which is at least willing to per? mit him the unbridled pursuit of philosophy and access to the oble youth. Socrates had accompanied Glaucon to the Piraeus both to pray and to see; he was motivated by piety and by theory-in the primitive and most revealing sense of that term, idle curiosity. The Athenians were introducing a new goddess into their cult. Socrates hints that it is the Athenians who bring in new divinities; if he, too, does so, he only imitates the democracy, with which he has