fonnance of that duty, he will also prove to Glaucon that philosophy is one thing that a man would want to pursue even if it brings him a bad reputation or the reputation for injustice. If philosophy is the health of the soul, and hence justice in the highest sense, justice is desirable in it? self, regardless of reputation. This is the praise of justice Glaucon asked for in the beginning. The explanation of philosophy's plight is divided into three parts: the true philosophers are misunderstood and neglected, the potential philosophers are corrupted, and impostors have taken on the guise of philosophers. Philosophy is exculpated and is useful to the city if prop? erly used. The appeal is directed to the people as a whole, whom Adeimantus seems to represent. The people's hostility is explained as a result of misunderstanding and the deceptions of vicious men. The peo? ple are represented as persuadable because they are decent, and there are no real conflicts of interest. This gentleness of the people is a necessary condition of the actualization of the good city and is therefore somewhat overstated in an account which tries to show that a city will accept philosophers as kings. Socrates begins his apology with an image, the first of several that are to come. These images constitute a kind of Socratic poetry and serve to counterbalance the powerful attack Socrates has made on poetry. Just as we learned that the poets know the human passions, here we learn that they are in possession of one of the most powerful tools for leading men to the truth. The intellect does not perceive the ideas directly; it knows of their existence only through particulars. Man must reason about the things he perceives in order to know their causes. Without a full and profound experience of the phenomena, the intellect is a void. Images are the food of the mind; and poetry can make the most fruitful images. In poetry one can find representations of man which are richer and more typical than any experiences of men that one is likely to have. The poetic images should be used as geometers use representations of circles-to understand something of which the particular circle is only an imperfect image. Poetry charac? teristically causes men to forget that its images are only images, that 1s, like the circle drawn in the sand which is not the circle; but it need not always be abused in this way. The image Socrates presents to Adeiman? tus has a double function: it tells him a lovely tale which charms him into a more favorable disposition toward philosophy; and it causes him to think about the meaning of the image. Adeimantus must see how the image applies to philosophy as he knows it, and in what respects the image differs from the reality it indicates. Thus he is beginning to think about philosophy, and in a way he is philosophizing. In Socrates' image, the city is compared to