necessary?" "Quite necessarily, Socrates," he said. "After that won't we go to war as a consequence, Glaucon? Or how will it be?" "Like that," he said. "And let's not yet say whether war works evil or good," I said, "but only this much, that we have in its turn found the origin of war-in those things whose presence in cities most of all produces evils both private and public." "Most certainly." "Now, my friend, the city must be still bigger, and not by a small number but by a whole army, which will go out and do battle with in- vaders for all the wealth and all the things we were just now talking 374 c about." "What," he said, "aren't they adequate by themselves?" "Not if that was a fine agreement you and all we others made when we were fashioning the city," I said. "Surely we were in agree? ment, if you remember, that it's impossible for one man to do a fine job in many arts." "What you say is true," he said. "Well then," I said, "doesn't the struggle for victory in war seem to be a matter for art?" "Very much so," he said. "Should one really care for the art of shoemaking more than for the art of war?" "Not at all." "But, after all, we prevented the shoemaker from trying at the same time to be a farmer or a weaver or a housebuilder; he had to stay a shoemaker just so the shoemaker's art would produce fine work for us. And in the same way, to each one of the others we assigned one thing, the one for which his nature fitted him, at which he was to work throughout his life, exempt from the other tasks, not letting the crucial moments pass, and thus doing a fine job. Isn't it of the greatest impor? tance that what has to do with war be well done? Or is it so easy that a farmer or a shoemaker or a man practicing any other art whatsoever can be at the same time skilled in the art of war, while no one could be? come an adequate draughts or dice player who didn't practice it frorri childhood on, but only gave it his spare time? Will a man, if he picks up a shield or any other weapon or tool of war, on that very day be an adequate combatant in a battle of heavy-armed soldiers,32 or any other kind of battle in war, even though no other tool if picked up will make anyone a craftsman or contestant, nor will it even be of use to the man who has not gained knowledge of it or undergone adequate train? ing?" "In that case," he said, "the tools would be worth a lot." "Then," I said, "to the extent that the work of the guardians is more important, it would require more leisure time than the other tasks as well as greater art and