happiness and wretchedness?" "You would," he said, "be quite right in suggesting these things t00. " "Do you want us," I said, "to pretend that we are among those who would be able to judge and have already met up with such men, so that we'll have someone to answer what we ask?" 571. C d e 571. a b 577 b C d e "Certainly." "Come, then," I said, "and consider it in this way for me. Recalling for yourself the likeness of the city and the man, and reflect? ing on each in tum, tell of the states of both." "Which ones?" he said. "In the first place," I said, "speaking of a city, will you say that one under a tyranny is free or slave?" "Slave," he said, "in the highest possible degree." "However, you do see masters and free men in it too." "I do," he said, "see a small part of the kind, but virtually the whole of it and the most decent part is slave, without honor, and wret? ched." "If, then," I said, "a man is like his city, isn't it also necessary that the same arrangement be in him and that his soul be filled with much slavery and illiberality, and that, further, those parts of it that are most decent be slaves while a small part, the most depraved and maddest, be master?" "That is necessary," he said. "What, then? Will you assert that such a soul is slave or free?" "Slave, of course." "And, further, doesn't the city that is slave and under a tyranny least do what it wants?" "By far." "And therefore, the soul that is under a tyranny will least do what it wants-speaking of the soul as a whole. Always forcibly drawn by a gadfly, it will be full of confusion and regret." "Of course." "And is the city under a tyranny necessarily rich or poor?" "Poor.,, 578 a "And, therefore, the tyrannic soul is necessarily always poverty- ridden and insatiable." "That's so," he said. "And what about this? Isn't such a city necessarily as full of fear as such a man?" "Quite necessarily." "Do you suppose you'll find more complaining, sighing, lamenting or suffering in any other city?" "Not at all." "But, in a man, do you believe there is more of this sort of thing in anyone other than this tyrannic man maddened by desires and loves?" "How could I?" he said. b. "J suppose, then, that you looked to all these things and others I fpook IX I 577b-578e -? r;: Zr'-- SOCRATES/GLAUCON !Jj]ce them and judged this city to be the most wretched of cities." f," "Wasn't I right in doing so?" he said. ; "Quite right," I said. "But, now, what do you say about the tyran? t-nic man in looking at these same things?" ; "That he is by far," he said, "the most wretched of all men." "In saying that," I said, "you are no longer right." "How's that?"