himself to a life of knowledge. Knowledge is not pursued for the sake of knowledge, but he recognizes a certain superiority in the life devoted to knowing for its own sake. It is this contradiction that defeats him, for taking knowledge seriously leads beyond preoccupation with one's private ad? vantage toward a disinterested life devoted to universal concern. Thra? symachus' respect for art and reason enables Socrates to tame him, both because Thrasymachus is compelled by the argument as a less rational man would not be when an argument goes counter to his passions, and because he is intrigued by Socrates' art and skill. Even though his argu? ments are not always simply good, Socrates manages to get the advan? tage over the great rhetorician. This is an impressive feat. The city, when confronted with Socrates, itself destroys him; Thrasymachus, charmed by his arguments, finally becomes his friend. The intellectual voice of the ci can become tracta s the cit never will. The Repu ic, a ook about a perfect city, is characterized by having per? fect interlocutors, that is, men without whom a city could not be founded and who are, at the same time, persuadable, whom argument can convince to adapt to a new kind of world which is contrary to their apparent advantage. Just as one must have almost unbelievable condi? tions to found the best city in deed, so one must have exceptional in? terlocutors to found it in speech. After Thrasymachus posits the precise definition of the ruler, a definition which assumes that ruling is an art and that art is a great good, it is a simple matter for Socrates to refute-or rather to silence -him. This argument is of particular interest because it poses the problem of justice in a most radical form. Socrates proceeds to show that all arts are directed to subject matters and that they are concerned with those subject matters and not with themselves; all arts rule some? thing, and they are interested in the good of the thing ruled. The practi? tioner of an art, at least in the precise sense, does not serve himself; on the contrary, he forgets himself completely. Thrasymachus' definition leads to the furthest extreme from his intention. If one wanted to have a city of men who cared only for the public rather than the private, one would only have to find a way of constituting one peopled by artisans in the precise sense-which is just the solution of the Republic. To the ex? tent to which a man is devoted to his calling, he forgets his own ad? vantage. [ 331] Thrasymachus rebels at the conclusion to which the argument compels him; in attempting to refute it, he cites the way of the world. Shepherds care for their sheep in order that they may be eaten, not in order to have happy sheep. Rulers look on the people as shepherds do sheep: as objects of exploitation. A shepherd who looked to the