educa? tion of the young, if our guardians are going to be god-revering and divine insofar as a human being can possibly be." "I am in complete agreement with these models," he said, "and would use them as laws." 382 e 383a b C BOOK Ill "About gods, then," f said, "such, it seems, are the things that should and should not be heard, from childhood on, by men who would honor gods and ancestors and not take lightly their friendship with each other." "And I," he said, ''suppose our impression is right." "And what if they are to be courageous? Mustn't they also be told things that will make them fear death least? Or do you believe that anyone who has this terror in him would ever become courageous?" "By Zeus, I don't," he said. "What about this? Do you suppose anyone who believes Hades' domain exists and is full of terror will be fearless in the face of death and choose death in battles above defeat and slavery_?" "Not at all." "Then, concerning these tales too, it seems we must supervise those who undertake to tell them and ask them not simply to disparage Hades' domain in this way but rather to praise it, because what they say is neither true nor beneficial for men who are to be fighters." "Indeed, we must," he said. "Then, we'll expunge all such things," I said, "beginning with this verse: I would rather be on the soil, a serf to another, To a man without lot whose means of life are not great, Than rule over all the dead who have perished1 386. a b C 386. C d and this, and, and this, and, [Lest] his house appear to mortals and immortals, Dreadful, moldy, and even the gods hate it2 Oh woe, so there is in Hades' house, too, Both soul and phantom, but no mind in it at all3 He alone possesses understanding; the others are fluttering shadows4 The soul flew from his limbs and went to Hades, Wailing his fate, leaving manliness and the bloom of youth5 386. a and this, Under the earth, like smoke, Went the gibbering soul6 and, Like bats who in a comer of an enchanted cave Fly gibbering when one falls off The cluster hanging from the rock, and Rise holding on to each other, So they went together gibbering.7 b. "We'll beg Homer and the other poets not to be harsh if we strike out these and all similar things. It's not that they are not poetic and sweet for the many to hear, but the more poetic they are, the less should they be heard by boys and men who must be free and ac? customed to fearing slavery more than death." "That's entirely certain." "And we must, further, also throw out all those terrible and fear? ful names applied to this domain: Cocytus, Styx, 'those below,' 'the C withered dead,' and all the other names that are part of this