least in thought, his own becoming. For the theoretical man, particular things are real only insofar as they "participate" in the ideas. They are not but are like what is. Hence the practical men who love particular things make the mistake of taking a thing to be that which it is like. They thus dream their lives away, never laying hold of a reality. But they cannot be told this. They must be soothed and deceived, and it is questionable how far they can afford to be tolerant of the philosopher whose interests are so different and conflicting. Here, again, poetry seems to be in the service of the characteristic weakness of the many. Thus, in mentioning the unphilosophic men who are like the philosophers, Glaucon chooses the example of those who love theatrical spectacles. Poetry itself deals in images of par? ticular things; and it uses its images to give added significance to one's particular attachments, beautifying one's country, one's loves, one's aspirations. In the beginning of the discussion Thrasymachus, the rhetorician, was refuted because he made the error of saying that a thing is that which it is like. And the discussion of imitation in Book III addressed this same question. It is a theme which runs throughout the Republic. Poetry, in its most common usage, adorns the particular and renders it more attractive, hence making it more difficult to trans? cend. It does so because it must appeal to audiences of men who cannot and do not wish to make that transcendence. It is thus an opponent of philosophy. Glaucon agrees that philosophers, since they are awake while others are dreaming and are like painters who can use the truth as their model, would be the best rulers if they possessed the other virtues. Soc? rates responds to the doubt implied in Glaucon's condition by attempt? ing to show that all the virtues are involved in the philosophers' very vocation and that thus they are good citizens. As a result of their love of wisdom, all the lovers of wisdom possess all the virtues, and more reliably than anyone else because they have a sufficient reason for being virtuous. They do not have to make an effort to become virtuous or concentrate on the virtues; the virtues follow of themselves from the greatest love and pleasure of the philosophers. In the case of other men, as Adeimantus has made clear, everything they love has to be sacrificed on the altar of virtue. By way of contrast, without sacrifice the philosopher, in addition to possessing the intellectual virtues, will be moderate, courageous, and just. At last there appears to be a resolution of the disharmony between happiness and devotion to the city that arose after the destruction of the city of sows. For the philosophers con? stitute a class of men who can safely be made rulers and whose hap? piness is identical with their virtuous activity. However, this solution may be more apparent than real, for it