important, the poet is unable to imitate the best -- THE REPUBL1c' kind of man, the philosopher. The philosopher would ruin a tragedy; and, although he might appear in a comedy, only certain effects of his activity, and not that activity itself, could be shown. A ruler can be shown ruling on the stage; and most other human types can also be shown as they are. But it is impossible to show a philosopher phi? losophizing. The Socratic critique of poetry is not only that the epic, tragic, and comic poets have not chosen as heroes the most admirable human types, but that their forms make it impossible for them to do so. What is needed is a form of poetry which is not compelled to make what is not truly highest appear to be highest. Ultimately the Platonic dialogue with its hero, Socrates, is that form. At this level of the discus? sion, however, Socrates leaves it at banishing most poets and insisting on a simple poetry which uses little imitation and, when it does use imitation, imitates only good men in their good moments. He does so because he wishes to protect the warriors' harcl-won moderation. He al? so does so because he does not want them to believe that the heroes of poetry are the best men, for they are to be ruled by men very different from those lieroes and must respect them. Just as Socrates deprived Adeimantus of the greater part of the charm derived from imitation, so he deprives Glaucon of much of the charm of the powerful accompaniments of poetry, harmony and rhythm, to which he is particularly inclined and at the mention of which he rejoins the dialogue. Harmony and rhythm move the passions in the most primitive way, speechlessly appealing to irrational fears and pleasures-which are themselves speechless. They possess a man and give him a deep sense of the significance ofh1s sentiments. Socrates ruthlessly subjects harmony and rhythm to the tales he wants told. Only those rhythms and harmonies which evoke the feelings appropriate to the new heroes are acceptable. Instead of letting words follow music, a temptation apparently involved in the nature of music's appeal, speech, logos, guides the music completely. Thus Socrates has made himself the master of poetry; he controls what it represents, how it represents, and the accompaniments which intensify its appeal. This mastery has been gained, though, only at the cost of what lovers of poetry find attractive in it. However, with Glaucon, as opposed to his brother, it is not only sacrifice that is demanded. Adeimantus' disposition is such as to accept severe austerity when he sees its necessity for the preservation of the city he is in the process of founding or the furtherance of that com? fortable justice he asked for in his speech and was contented with in the city of sows. But Glaucon, on the other hand, jnsists on what is good for himself, and the community is only of