they caJl initiations,14 de1iver us from the evils in the other place; while, for those who did not sacrifice, terrible things are waiting. "My dear Socrates," he said, "with all these things being said-of this sort and in this quantity-about virtue and vice and how human beings and gods honor them, what do we suppose they do to the souls of the young men who hear them? I mean those who have good natures and have the capacity, as it were, to fly to all the things that are said and gather from them what sort of man one should be and what way b. one must fo1low to go through Jife best. In all likelihood he would say to himself, after Pindar, will I 'with justice or with crooked deceits scale the higher wall' where I can fortify myself all around and live but my life? For the things said indicate that there is no advantage in my being just, if I don't also seem to be, while the labors and penalties in? volved are evident. But if I'm unjust, but have provided myself with a reputation for justice, a divine life is promised. Therefore, since as the c wise make plain to me, 'the seeming overpowers even the truth'15 and is the master of happiness, one must surely turn wholly to it. As facade and exterior I must draw a shadow painting16 of virtue all around me, while behind it I must trail the wily and subtle fox of the most wise Ar? chilochus.17 'But,' says someone, 'it's not always easy to do bad and get d. away with it unnoticed.' 'Nothing great is easy,' we'll say. 'But at aJl events, if we are going to be happy we must go where the tracks of the arguments lead. For, as to getting away with it, we'll organize secret so? cieties and clubs; and there are teachers of persuasion who offer the wisdom of the public assembly and the court. On this basis, in some things we']] persuade and in others use force; thus we'lJ get the better and not pay the penalty.' 'But it surely isn't possible to get away from the gods or overpower them.' 'But, if there are no gods, or if they have no care for human things, why should we care at all about getting d. away? And if there are gods and they care, we know of them or have heard of them from nowhere else than the lawsis and the poets who have given genealogies; and these are the very sources of our being told that they are such as to be persuaded and perverted by sacrifices, sooth- ing vows, and votive offerings. Either both things must be believed or neither. If they are to be believed, injustice must be done and sacrifice offered from the unjust acquisitions. For if we are just, we won't be punished by the gods. That is all. And we'll refuse the gains of in? justice. But