is the direct opposite of that of the Enlightenment which argued that civil society could dispense with lies and count on selfish calculation to make men loyal to it. The difference between the two views can be reduced to a difference concerning the importance of moderation, both for the preservation of civil society and for the full development of individual men's natures. The noble lie is designed to give men grounds for resisting, in the name of_the common good, their powerful desires. The great thinkers of the Enlightenment did not deny that such lies are necessary to induce men to sacrifice their desires and to care for the common good. They were no more hopeful than Soc? rates concerning most men's natural capacity to overcome their inclinations and devote themselves to the public welfare. What they in? sisted was that it was possible to build a civil society in which men did not have to care for the common good, in which desire would be chan? neled rather than controlled. A civil society which provided security and some prospect of each man's acquiring those possessions he most wishes would be both a more simple and more .sure solution than any utopian attempt to make men abandon their selfish wishes. Such a civil society could count on men's rational adhesion, for it would be an in? strument in procuring their own good as they see it. Therefore modera? tion of the appetites would be not only unnecessary but undesirable, for it would render a man more independent of the regime whose purpose it is to satisfy the appetites. The Socratic response to this argument would be twofold. First, he would simply deny the possibility of a regime which would never be compelled to call for real sacrifices from its citizens. This is particularly true in time of war. A man cannot reasonably calculate that dying in battle will serve the long-range satisfaction of his desires. Therefore every civil society will require myths which can make citizens of private men. But in the case of such a selfish society it will be both very difficult to provide such myths, and they will be a distasteful parody of 1 the reason on which the society prides itself; what pretends to be philosophy will have to be propaganda. Second, such a civil society can be founded only by changing the meaning of rationality. For this society, rationality consists in the discovery of the best means of satisfying desires. The irrationality of those desires must be neglected; in particular, men must neglect the ir? rationality of their unwillingness to face the fact that they must die, of their constant search for the means of self-preservation as if they could live forever. Socrates teaches that only a man who masters the desires of the body can see the true human situation and come to terms with it. Such mastery is the precondition of living a rational and satisfy? ing life, but it is very difficult to