no one have what belongs to others, nor be deprived of what belongs to him?" "None -other than this." "Because that's just?" ''Yes.,, "And therefore, from this point of view too, the having and doing of one's own and what belongs to oneself would be agreed to be justice." "That's so." "Now see if you have the same opinion as I do. A carpenter's trying to do the job of a shoemaker or a shoemaker that of a carpenter, or their exchanging tools or honors with one another, or even the same man's trying to do both, with everything else being changed along with it, in your opinion, would that do any great harm to the city?" "Hardly," he said. "But, I suppose, when one who is a craftsman or some other kind of money-maker by nature, inflated by wealth, multitude, strength, or something else of the kind, tries fo get into the class21 of the war? rior, or one of the warriors who's unworthy into that of the adviser and guardian, and these men exchange tools and honors with one another; or when the same man tries to do all these things at once-then I sup? pose it's also your opinion that this change in them and this meddling are the destruction of the city." "That's entirely certain." "Meddling among the classes, of which there are three, and ex- change with one another is the greatest harm for the city and would most correctly be called extreme evil-doing." "Quite certainly." "Won't you say that the greatest evil-doing against one's own city is injustice?" "Of course." "Then, that's injustice. Again, let's say it this way. The opposite of this-the money-making, auxiliary, and guardian classes doing what's appropriate, each of them minding its own business in a city? would be justice and would make the city just." "My opinion," he said, "is also that and no other." "Let's not assert it so positively just yet," I said. "But, if this form is applied to human beings singly and also agreed by us to be justice there, then we'll concede it. What else will there be for us to say? And if not, then we'll consider something else. Now let's complete the con- sideration by means of which we thought that, if we should attempt to see justice first in some bigger thing that possessed it, we would more easily catch sight of what it's like in one man. And it was our opinion that this bigger thing is a city; so we founded one as best we could, knowing full well that justice would be in a good one at least. Let's ap? ply what came to light there to a single man, and if the two are in agreement, everything is fine. But if something different should tum up in the single man, we'll go back again to the city and test it; perhaps, considering them side by side and rubbing them together like sticks, we would make justice burst