name 'my own' to the same thing, but different men giving it to different things--one man drag? ging off to his own house whatever he can get his hands on apart from b. the others, another being separate in his own house with separate women and children, introducing private pleasures and griefs of things that are private? Rather, with one conviction about what's their own, straining toward the same thing, to the limit of the possi? ble, they are affected alike by pain and pleasure." "Entirely so," he said. "And what about this? Won't lawsuits and complaints against one another virtually vanish from among them thanks to their possessing nothing private but the body, while the rest is in common? On this basis they will then be free from faction, to the extent at any rate that b. human beings divide into factions over the possession of money, chil? dren, and relatives?" "Yes," he said, "it's quite necessary that they be rid of factions." "And further, there would justly be no suits for assault or insult among them. For we'll surely say that it is fine and just for men to take care of their own defense against others of the same age, thus imposing on them the necessity of taking care of their bodies." "Right," he said. 465 a "This law is also right," I said, "in that, if a man's spiritedness is aroused against someone, he would presumably satisfy it in this way and be less likely to get into bigger quarrels." "Most certainly." "Further, an older man will be charged with ruling and pun? ishing all the younger ones." "Plainly." "And, further, unless rulers command it, it's not likely that a younger man will ever attempt to assault or strike an older one. And he won't, I suppose, dishonor one in any other way. For there are two sufficient guardians hindering him, fear and shame: shame preventing b. him from laying hands as on parents, fear that the others will come to the aid of the man who suffers it, some as sons, others as brothers, and others as fathers." "So it turns out," he said. "Then will the men, as a result of the laws, live in peace with one another in all respects?" [ 144] "Very much so." "Since they are free from faction among themselves, there won't ever be any danger that the rest of the city will split into factions against these guardians or one another." "Surely not." "Because of their unseemliness, I hesitate to mention the pettiest of the evils of which they would be rid: poor men flattering rich, all the want and grief they have in rearing children and making money for the necessary support of the household, making debts and repudiating them, doing all sorts of things to provide for the allowances that they turn over to the women and the domestics to manage. What and how they suffer from these things, my friend, is perfectly plain, ignoble, and