to show that the desire to have more for oneself is a goal which contradicts the character of art or science which, like law, deals not with the individual, but rather with the universal. But this argument does not suffice to convince anyone that it is possible to live well without being a sturdy competitor and re? enforces the doubt about the desirability of being devoted to art or wisdom. Socrates only succeeded in this discussion because of Thrasyma? chus' incapacity to make the proper distinctions and to see the problem in the analogy to the arts. Surely, it is impossible to hold that life is simply getting more; but in the character of civil society and the pre? cariousness of human life and property there is a substantial basis for Thrasymachus' observations which he has been {iri'able to defend. Soc? rates, rather than refuting him, humiliates and punishes him. At the end of this argument he is shown to be unjust but unwise, discredited before an audience in his claim to wisdom, and, worst of all, shown to be an inferior rhetorician. The apparently shameless Thrasymachus, willing to say anything, is revealed in all his vanity, for he blushes. He has no true freedom of mind, because he is attached to prestige, to the applause of the multitude and hence their thought. He gives voice merely to common opinions which are usually kept quiet and therefore appears wiser than most men. But he is really conventional and petty, a lover of applause more than of truth. The next argument advanced by Socrates in favor of justice is that it is necessary. It begins from a more onventional understanding of justice: obedience to common rules which enable a group to act in com? mon. Socrates proves that the acquisition of any of the goals previously praised by Thrasymachus requires at least some justice. This is un? deniably true, but it does not prove that those goals are unattractive; it only shows that justice may be an unpleasant necessity in gaining them-a repulsive means to a desirable end. In this sense, the justice of a city would be no different from that of a band of robbers. Each is forced to make some sacrifices of immediate individual advantage for the sake of long-range self-interest. There is nothing intrinsically more noble about the city. At this point it would almost seem as though Soc? rates were accusing Thrasymachus of being too "idealistic." The latter thinks the strong man can simply ignore justice, while Socrates teaches that justice must be a matter of concern to him who wants to get more than others; it is an unfortunate fact of life. The third argument is to the effect that justice is to be desired be? cause it is the health and perfection of the soul. In the course of the first argument, Thrasymachus had somehow agreed with Socrates that justice is virtue. But what is virtue, if not that which allows a thing to