been a theme from the beginning of the Republic, and it has received a most subtle treatment. As a matter of fact/the whole issue of the book is whether one of the virtues, justice, is choiceworthy in itself or only for its accessory advantages/ Socrates in this passage teaches that a man of the Spartan type-th! kind of man most reputed for virtue-really does not love virtue for its own sa e, but for other advantages follow? ing upon it. Secretly he believes money is truly good. This is the same critique Aristotle makes of Sparta. The question raised here is whether all vulgar virtue, all nonphilosophic practice of the virtues, is based upon expectation of some kind of further reward or not. None of this would appear from Comford's version, no matter how hard the stu? dent of the text might think about it. He even suppresses Adeimantus' question so that the entire atmosphere of perplexity disappears. Now, Adeimantus is an admirer of Sparta, and Socrates has been trying to correct and purify that. admiration. Adeimantus' question indicates his difficulty in understanding Socrates' criticism of what he admires; it shows how little he has learned. The dramatic aspect of the dialogue is not without significance. Cornford is undoubtedly right that virtue no longer means what it u ed to mean and that it has lost its currency. (However, if one were to assert that courage, for example, is a virtue, most contemporaries would have some divination of what one is talking about.) But is this senility of the word only an accident? It has been said that it is one of the great mysteries of Western thought "how a word which used to mean the manliness of man has come to mean the chastity of woman." This change in significance is the product of a new understanding of the nature of man which began with Machiavelli. (If there were a transla? tion of the Prince which always translated virtu by virtue, the student who compared it with the Republic would be in a position to make the most exciting of discoveries.) "Freedom" took the place of "virtue" as the most important term of political discourse, and virtue came to mean social virtue-that is, the disposition which would lead men to be obedient to civil authority and live in peace together rather than the natural perfection of the soul. The man who begins his studies should not be expected to know these things, but the only tolerable result of ]earning is that he become aware of them and be able to reflect on which of the alternatives most ade? quate]y describes the human condition. As it now stands, he may well be robbed of the greatest opportunity for enlightenment afforded by the classic literature. A study of the use of the word "virtue" in the Republic is by itself most revealing; and when, in addition, its sense is compared in Cicero, Thomas Aquinas, Hobbes, and Rous? seau, the true history