was correct. The decision to look for justice in a city first, and the consequent distinction between justice in a city and justice in an individual man, keep con? stantly before us the question whether the justice which makes a city healthy is the same as that which makes a man healthy. On the answer to this question depends the answer to the question whether it is ad? vantageous for a man to devote himself to the city. We must first discover what a healthy city is and what a healthy soul is. The very coming to awareness of such a city and soul transforms and educates these young men. , (369b-372e) The first city is constructed by Socrates and Adei? mantus, without the help of Glaucon. Thus it reflects the tastes of Adeimantus. It is an easy place: there is no scarcity, and justice takes care of itself. Men join together because they are incomplete, because they cannot provide for their needs themselves. Their intention is not to have more than others but to have enough for themselves. As long as there is no scarcity they will be peaceful, and the arts, with the cooperation of nature, produce enough to content them. Each man chooses n art according to his natural capacities so that nothing in life goes against the grain of the inhabitants' desires or talents. Each con? tributes according to his ability and receives according to his needs. In such a city, there is an immediate identity between selfish interest and the common good. Hence there is no need for men to be governed. The city is really the perfect community of artisans envisaged in the discus? sion with Thrasymachus, for each man devotes himself exclusively to his own art, his own good resulting from that dedication. The invention of money makes this possible. In this city it is not of value in itself and " is not pursued as an end in itself. That development would be the result of inflamed desires. Here money simply facilitates exchange so that every artisan, as a result of practicing his own art, will have access to the products of the other arts. There is no separate wage-earner's art, for each art by itself produces the equivalent of money; and there is no need of an organizing principle other than that provided by money, which represents the needs of the body. It sets the various arts and ar- [ 344] tisans in motion in the service of satisfying those needs. This is a city which takes the bodily needs as the only real ones; and whatever efforts of the soul and intelligence it calls into play are entirely directed to the preservation and comfort of the body. By means of the example of this city, Socrates, in opposition to Glaucon, suggests that the bodily desires are very simple and easy to satisfy. In this he is not unlike Rousseau in his opposition to Hobbes. The more complicated desires, the ones