Benardete, "The Right, the True, and the Beautiful" [Glotta, XLI (1963), pp. 54-62]. 14. Another reading, much less well supported by the manuscripts, would give the following translation: "'Isn't Polemarchus the heir of all that belongs to you?' I said." 15. The word for "sacrifices" is identical with the generic term for the "sacred." This is the very last word concerning Cephalus. He is introduced to, and removed from, the dialogue in the atmosphere of ancestral piety which he represents and by which his situation in this life and the next is protected. 16. The Greek word is techne, from which the English words "technical" and "technique" are derived. It does not mean art in the present? day sense, but rather in the older sense implied, for example, by the word ar? tisan. It means a discipline operating on the basis of principles that can be taught. It is, hence, not opposed to science but allied with it, and in Plato the terms "art" and "science" are often indistinguishable; an art is always a model of what is rational and intelligible. 17. The term is derived from the word kninnn, which means "common" or "public." All the words for partner or partnership used by Socrates in this context are drawn from this root; the last, a few lines farther on, is koinonia which is a classic term for a political community. "Contracts," used by Polemarchus, implies relations having primarily to do with money. Socrates, in introducing the broader term, indicates that the proper context for the solu? tion of the problem of justice is the political community. 18. Apparently this was a game similar to checkers. In Plato, it is often employed as a symbol of dialectic, just as housebuilding or architecture (the next example) frequently stands for lawgiving. In dialectic, premises-like pieces-are set down and are changed in relation to the moves of one's partners. The game can be played over, and one's moves can be improved on the basis of experience with the opponent's moves. It is a friendly combat and an amusement for its own sake (cf. 487lrc). 19. The Greek word is logos which most simply means "speech" and is derived from the verb "to speak." It can also mean story, discourse, argum nt, andreason; it is speech and what speech implies-human reason as expressed in speech. At this stage in the discussion begins the first reflection on that ac-? tivity of discussion in which the interlocutors find themselves engaged. In this edition the word will always be translated as "speech" or "argument," except in a few instances where it must be rendered as "reason." 14. Odyssey, XIX, 395--396. The other grandfather, previously men? tioned (330b), should not be forgotten in this context. 15. This is a translation of the word arete; it is the translation used by Cicero and all other thinkers in the tradition of moral and political thought. It means, broadly stated, "the specific excellence of a thing." "What is vir? tue?" is