subject we pro? posed for ourselves." "It would, in any case," he said, "be a reasonable way for the ob? servation and judgment to take place." "Well, come, then," I said, "lefs try to tell the way in which a timocracy would arise from an aristocracy. Or is it simply the case that change in every regime comes from that part of it which holds the ruJing offices-when faction arises in it-while when it is of one mind, it cannot be moved, be it composed of ever so few?" "Yes, thaf s so." "Then, Glaucon," I said, "how will our city be moved and in what way will the auxiliaries and the rulers divide into factions against each other and among themselves? Or do you want us, as does Homer, to pray to the Muses to tell us how 'faction first attacked,'4 and shall we say that they speak to- us with high tragic talk, as though they were speaking seriously, playing and jesting with us like children?" "How?" "Something like this. A city so composed is hard to be moved. But, since for everything that has come into being there is decay, not even a composition such as this will remain for all time; it will be 544 e 545 a b C d e 546 a 54.6a b C d b dissolved. And this wi11 be its dissolution: bearing and ba.rrenness of soul and bodies come not only to plants in the earth but to animals on the earth when revolutions complete for each the bearing round of circles; for ones with short lives, the journey is short; for those whose lives are the opposite, the journey is the opposite. Although they are wise, the men you educated as leaders of the city will nonetheless fail to hit on the prosperous birth and barrenness of your kind with calcula? tion aided by sensation, but it will pass them by, and they will at some time beget children when they should not. For a divine birth there is a period comprehended by a perfect number; for a human birth, by the first number in which root and square ind-eases, comprising three distances and four limits, of elements that make like and unlike, and that wax and wane, render everything conversable and rational. Of these elements, the root four-three mated with the five, thrice in? creased, produces two harmonies. One of them is equal an equal num? ber of times, taken one hundred times over. The other is of equal length in one way but is an oblong; on one side, of one hundred rational diameters of the five, lacking one for each; or, if of irrational diameters, lacking two for each; on the other side, of one hundred cubes of the three. This whole geometrical number is sovereign of better and worse begettings.5 And when your guardians from ignorance of them cause grooms to live with brides out of season, the children will have neither good natures nor good