for which we are to define the sort of thing that must and must not be said? It has been stated how gods must be spoken about, and demons and heroes, and Hades' domain." "Most certainly." "Wouldn't it be human beings who remain?" "Plainly." "Well, my friend, it's impossible for us to arrange that at present." "Why?" "Because I suppose we'll say that what both poets and prose writers37 say concerning the most important things about human beings is bad-that many happy men are unjust, and many wretched ones just, and that doing injustice is profitable if one gets away with it, but justice is someone else's good and one's own loss. We'll forbid them to say such things and order them to sing and to tell tales about the op? posites of these things. Or don't you suppose so?" "I know it quite well," he said. "Then, if you were to agree that what I say is correct, wouldn't I say you've agreed about what we've been looking for all along?" "Your supposition is correct," he said. "Won't we come to an agreement that such speeches must be made about human beings when we find out what sort of a thing justice is and how it by nature profits the man who possesses it, whether he seems to be just or not?" "Very true," he said. "So then let that be the end of what has to do with speeches. After this, I suppose, style38 must be considered, and then we'll have made a complete consideration of what must be said and how it must be said." And Adeimantus said; "I don't understand what you mean." "But, you just have to," I said. "Perhaps you'll grasp it better in this way. Isn't everything that's said by tellers of tales or poets a nar? rative of what has come to pass, what is, or what is going to be?" "What else could it be?" he said. "Now, don't they accomplish this with a narrative that is either simple or produced by imitation, or by both together?" "I need," he said, "a still clearer understanding of this as well." "I seem to be a ridiculous teacher, and an unclear one," I said. "So, just like men who are incompetent at speaking, instead of speak? ing about the whole in general, I'll cut off a part and with it attempt to make plain to you what I want. Tell me, do you know the first things in the Iliad39 where the poet tells of Chryses' begging Agamemnon to ransom his daughter, and Agamemnon's harshness, and Chryses' calling down curses from the god on the Achaeans when he failed?" "I do." "Then you know that up to these lines, And he entreated all the Achaeans, But especially Atreus' two sons, the marshallers of the host,40 the poet himself speaks and doesn't attempt to turn our thought else? where, as though someone other than he were speaking. But, in what follows, he speaks as