"If you were providing for a city of sows, Socrates, on what else would you fatten them than this?" "Well, how should it be, Glaucon?" I said. "As is conventional," he said. "I suppose men who aren't going to be wretched recline on couches30 and eat from tables and have rel? ishes and desserts just like men have nowadays." "All right," I said. "I understand. We are, as it seems, considering not only how a city, but also a luxurious city, comes into being. Perhaps that's not bad either. For in considering such a city too, we could probably see in what way justice and injustice naturally grow in cities. Now, the true31 city is in my opinion the one we just described-a healthy city, as it were. But, if you want to, let's look at a feverish city, too. Nothing stands in the way. For these things, as it seems, won't satisfy some, or this way of life, but couches, tables, and other furniture 371 e 372 a b C d e 373 a 373a b C d e 374 a will be added, and, of course, relishes, perfume, incense, courtesans and cakes-all sorts of all of them. And, in particular, we can't still postulate the mere necessities we were talking about at first-houses, clothes, and shoes; but painting and embroidery must also be set in mo? tion; and gold, ivory, and everything of the so t must be obtained. Isn't that so?" "Yes," he said. "Then the city must be made bigger again. This healthy one isn't adequate any more, but must already be gorged with a bulky mass of things, which are not in cities because of necessity-all the hunters and imitators, many concerned with figures and colors, many with music; and poets and their helpers, rhapsodes, actors, choral dancers, con? tractors, and craftsmen of all sorts of equipment, for feminine adorn? ment as well as other things. And so we'll need more servants too. Or doesn't it seem there will be need of teachers, wet nurses, governesses, beauticians, barbers, and, further, relish-makers and cooks? And, what's more, we're in addition going to need swineherds. This animal wasn't in our earlier city-there was no need-but in this one there will be need of it in addition. And there'll also be need of very many other fatted beasts if someone will eat them, won't there?" "Of course." "Won't we be in much greater need of doctors if we follow this way of life rather than the earlier one?" "Much greater." "And the land, of course, which was then sufficient for feeding the men who were then, will now be small although it was sufficient. Or how should we say it?" "Like that," he said. "Then must we cut off a piece of our neighbors' land, if we are going to have sufficient for pasture and tillage, and they in turn from ours, if they let themselves go to the unlimited acquisition of money, overstepping the boundary of the