whether he considers that his prime. The passions of youth led him to bodily pleasures, and it is only with the body's decline that he turns to the things of the soul. For Cephalus, speeches are a way of spending his old age, for Socrates they constitute the highest human activity. Ceph? alus' youthful passions, however appealing, seem to have led him into activities that are contrary to justice, and his old age is spent wor? rying about them and atoning for them. Thus, from the point of view of justice, eros is a terrible thing, a savage beast. For a man like Cephalus, life is always split between sinning and repenting. Only by the death of eros and its charms can such a gentleman become fully reliable, for his eros leads neither to justice nor philosophy but to intense, private bodily satisfaction. Cephalus says that it is character, an attribute of the soul, which enables him to be contented in old age. Socrates poses a rather crude question: doesn't money help? Aren't the things with which Cephalus is concerned really tied to money? Isn't the insistence on character merely a way of hiding the fact of dependence on money and of attributing one's happiness to oneself rather than to the true material source of one's well being? Must not the overriding concern of private men, families and cities be the acquisition of wherewithal? The answer is yes and no. Cephalus would be very different and much less happy without money; he is not like Socrates who is poor and needs nothing more. But Cephalus is not a simple money-maker. Money is necessary, but it frees him for the fulfillment of certain family and religious duties which sublimate his life. He inherits the money and whatever improprieties were committed in the first making of it are lost in the mists of time. It would be unseemly, and lead to an undu-e concentration on money if one were to insist too much on its importance. Characteristic of Ceph? alus and men like him is a salutary forgetting of the preconditions of their kind of life. The greatest good Cephalus has enjoyed from money is the avoid- ance of injustice and impiety. Here for the first time we touch on the subject which is to become the theme of the Republic. The question of money seems to ]ead him to the question of justice. The old man is afraid of punishment after death, so he does not want to depart owing debts to men or sacrifices to gods, or having cheated or deceived anyone. With his money he can pay his debts and offer his sacrifices and because he possesses money he is not so dependent on others tha he need deceive in order to stay alive. The tales told by the poets about punishments in another world for injustices committed in this one con? cerned Cephalus little when he was younger. He was inclined to laugh them off; accordingly, he worried