down the rule that a regime can be destroyed only by the vice intrinsic to its principle. Oligarchy, for example, because of its attachment to money, necessarily impoverishes vulnerable members of its own class and thus swells the ranks of the poor with able, disaffected men. This Fegime has to encourage prodigality and hence saps public spiritedness. Oligarchy, in this view, can never be overthrown by an unprovoked, surprise attack by a more powerful neighbor. Its downfall must be a result of its own faults. This assertion of Socrates is akin to his in? sistence in Book III that the soul is the cause of the body's illness. The regime is the soul of the city, and it causes everything that happens in it; thus domestic policy is all that counts. Socrates abstracts here from accident and particularly from foreign policy. This serves to focus at? tention on what is most essential in the city, its virtues; these depend entirely on the regime, and its good character is the chief responsibility of the statesmen. This treatment of the regimes contrasts strong]y with the way Soc? rates treats the men who are supposed to be 1ike them. The man in each case seems to be a member, not of the city he resemb]es, but of a democratic city and does not share the character of the city in which he 1ives. (Even the democratic man is not the poor, 1ean citizen described by Socrates when he spoke of the democratic city.) The various kinds of sou] can apparently reach their fulfillment on their own in a democratic city; they are not encouraged by it, nor are they hindered by it. Socrates describes democracy as a general store stocked with all kinds of regimes; he follows his own suggestion and goes to that store when he wants to select the various kinds of men. Athens is where one has to live in order to know the range of human possibilities. The only type he cannot find there is the tyrant actualizing his potential, but there is a young man present in the discussion who might well like to be one. The change from one kind of man to the next and lower kind is understood by Socrates as a failure of education within the family. It is in each case a superior father who is unable to make his son like him? self. And here, as opposed to the discussion of the regimes, the changes in the crucial instances are in part caused by what might be cal1ed prob]ems of foreign po1icy. The cities were isolated, and their difficulties arose out of the relations of the parts within them. But the aristocratic and timocratic men have difficulties in their relations with the city, and because of the unsatisfactory character of those relations, the sons reject the fathers' ways of life in favor of ways which are more suited to success in the city. Thus they become inferior men. Socrates appears to be