"There are men who see this situation and set themselves to this service; in rightly governed cities they are usually those whose bodies are weakest and are useless for doing any other job. d. They must stay there in the market and exchange things for money with those who need to sell something and exchange, for money again, with all those who need to buy something." "This need, then, produces tradesmen in our city," I said. "Don't we call tradesmen those men who are set up in the market to serve in buying and selling, and merchants those who wander among the cities?" "Most certainly." d. "There are, I suppose, still some other servants who, in terms of their minds, wouldn't be quite up to the level of partnership, but whose bodies are strong enough for labor. They sell the use of their strength and, because they call their price a wage, they are, I suppose, called wage earners, aren't they?" "Most certainly." "So the wage earners too, as it seems, go to fill out the city." "It seems so to me." "Then has our city already grown to completeness, Adeimantus?" "Perhaps." "Where in it, then, would justice and injustice be? Along with which of the things we considered did they come into being?" "I can't think, Socrates," he said, "unless it's somewhere in some need these men have of one another." "Perhaps what you say is fine," I said. "It really must be con? sidered and we mustn't back away. First, let's consider what manner of life men so provided for will lead. Won't they make bread, wine, cloth? ing, and shoes? And, when they have built houses, they will work in the summer, for the most part naked and without shoes, and in the winter adequately clothed and shod. For food they will prepare barley meal and wheat flour; they will cook it and knead it. Setting out noble loaves of barley and wheat on some reeds or clean leaves, they will stretch out on rushes strewn with yew and myrtle and feast themselves and their children. Afterwards they will drink wine and, crowned with wreathes, sing of the gods. So they will have sweet intercourse with one another, and not produce children beyond their means, keeping an eye out against poverty or war." And Glaucon interrupted, saying: "You seem to make these men have their feast without relishes." "What you say is true," I said. "I forgot that they'll have relishes, too-it's plain they'll have salt, olives, cheese; and they will boil onions and greens, just as one gets them in the country. And to be sure, we'll set desserts before them-figs, pulse and beans; and they'll roast myrtle? berries and acorns before the fire and drink in measure along with it. And so they will live out their lives in peace with health, as is likely, and at last, dying as old men, they will hand down other similar lives to their offspring." And he said,