group of friends. Socrates now turns to the investigation of the justice of the individ? ual man, which is so crucial for Glaucon. This investigation quickly moves to a discussion of the soul; by treating the soul as the whole man Socrates tacitly assumes the irrelevance of the body to the 'question of' what justice in a man is. He and Glaucon attempt to determine whether the soul has three parts, as does the city; if it does, the analogy would incline them to believe that they are of the same character and order as are the parts of a city and that a soul's virtues are the same as those of a city. They easily distinguish desire and reason as separate parts of the soul. Then, as might be expected, the crucial part and the one most difficult to determine is spiritedness. Is it separate or does it belong to one of the two other classes? Glaucon gives an obvious answer and one that accords with his own experience: it belongs to the desiring part. He is probably most angry when he does not get what he wants; surely his specific form of spiritedness leads him off to war in pursuit of satisfaction of desire for pleasure and victory. Socrates responds with an example in which spiritedness purportedly overcomes desire. Spirited? ness is ambiguous: it may support or oppose bodily desire, or it may even itself be a kind of desire. But Socrates goes much further. He tries to make spiritedness look like a loyal ally of reason, as it were, reason's army, which forces the desires along the path of reason's commands. Socrates acts as though it were only in the cases of the most perverse kind of man that spiritedness opposes reason. Hence the soul is a unity in diversity and is strictly parallel to the city. The analogy to the auxiliary class in the city makes it plausible to assert that spiritedness is reason's companion and of a distinctly higher order than the desires. But this is a most "optimistic" account of spiritedness, one that accords with that hopefulness about its control which is the condition of the founding of the city and that depreciation of the desires that is necessary to the city. Socrates, in order to prove the point that spiritedness is different from desire and serves to control it, tells the story of a certain Leontius who, on his way up to Athens from the Piraeus,. observed that there were corpses on the public executioner's ground and desired to look at them. Something within him resisted the desire, but after a struggle, he gave way and looked. He then cursed his eyes and bid them take their fill of "the fair [or noble]spectacle." Careful reflection on this example reveals that it does not so simply support Socrates' thesis that spiritedness is essentially an ally of reason. One must ask why spiritedness opposes the desire to look at corpses and becomes angry with the