crossing of the river of Lethe and not defile our soul. But if we are per- suaded by me, holding that soul is immortal and capable of bearing all evils and all goods, we shall always keep to the upper road and practice justice with prudence in every way so that we shall be friends to our- selves and the gods, both while we remain here and when we reap the rewards for it like the victors who go about gathering in the prizes. And d so here and in the thousand year journey that we have described we shall fare well."22 INTERPRETIVE ESSAY INTERPRETIVE ESSAY The Republic is the true Apology of Socrates, for only in the Republic does he give an adequate treatment of the theme which was forced on him by Athens' accusation against him. That theme is the relationship of the philosopher to the political community. Socrates was accused of doing unjust things-of not believing in the gods which the city believed in and of corrupting the youth. These charges do not relate simply to the man Socrates who happens to be a philosopher but are meant to be a condemnation of the philosophic ac? tivity itself-and not on behalf simply of the city of Athens, but on behalf of the political community as such. From the city's point of view, there seems to be something about the thought and way of life of the philosopher which calls into question the city's gods, who are the protectors of its laws, and which hence makes him a bad citizen, or rather no citizen at all. Such a man's presence in the city and his asso? ciation with the most promising young men make him a subversive. Socrates is unjust not only because he breaks Athens' laws but also be? cause he apparently does not accept those fundamental beliefs which make civil society possible. Philosophy required a defense if it was to be admitted into civil society. At the time of Socrates' trial, philosophy was new to the cities, and it could easily have been crushed. The philosopher had to defend himself before the city, or the city would have been legitimated in discouraging philosophy's entrance into it as vigorously as possible. Soc- rates' trial was the crisis of philosophy, and its life was at stake. And contrary to what modern men might be inclined to believe, it is no simply clear that philosophy is salutary, or even harmless, for the city. Socrates indicates this by the fact that he is at pains in the Apology to distinguish himself from other philosophers. He seems to agree that it is somewhat questionable whether a city which wants its sons to care for it should permit them to consort with philosophers. The city sees only the apparent atheism of the philosopher and his effect on the young; the poet Aristophanes, who ridiculed Socrates in the Clouds and paved the way for his later official accusation, shows why the philosopher is