however, but in another way hard not to accept. All the s me-since ifs not only now that these things must be heard, but they must all be returned to many times in the future-taking for granted that this is as has now been said, let's proceed to the song itself and go through it just as we went through the prelude. So tell what the charac? ter of the power of dialectic is, and, then, into exactly what forms it is e divided; and finally what are its ways. For these, as it seems, would lead at last toward that place which is for the one who reaches it a haven from the road, as it were, and an end of his journey." l3 a "You will no longer be able to follow, my dear Glaucon," I said, "although there wouldn't be any lack of eagerness on my part. But you would no longer be seeing an image of what we are saying, but rather the truth itself, at least as it looks to me. Whether it is really so or not can no longer be properly insisted on. But that there is some such thing to see must be insisted on. Isn't it so?" "Of course." "And, also, that the power of dialectic alone could reveal it to a man experienced in the things we just went through, while it is in no other way possible?" "Yes," he said, "it's proper to insist on that too." b. "At least," I said, "no one will dispute us when we say that some other inquiry methodically23 attempts with respect to everything to grasp-about each several thing itself-what each is. For all the other arts are directed to human opinions and desires, or to generation and composition, or to the care of what is grown or put together. And as for the rest, those that we said do lay hold of something of what is-geometry and the arts following on it-we observe that they do dream about what is; but they haven't the capacity to see it in full c. awakeness so long as they use hypotheses and, leaving them untouched, are unable to give an account of them. When the beginning is what one doesn't know, and the end and what comes in between are woven out of what isn't known, what contrivance is there for ever turning such an agreement into knowledge?" "None," he said. "Then," I said, "only the dialectical way of inquiry proceeds in this direction, destroying the hypotheses, to the beginning itself in or? der to make it secure; and when the eye of the soul is really buried in a b. barbaric bog,24 dialectic gently draws it forth and leads it up above, using the arts we described as assistants and helpers in the turning around. Out of habit we called them kinds of knowledge several times, but they require another name, one that is brighter than opinion but [ 212] dimmer than knowledge. Thought