has seemed to believe that one must be just, that the only problem is to define more precisely what justice is. Now, following Thrasymachus, he makes the whole discussion much more radical in permitting the goodness of justice and the just life to become doubtful. Although justice has not been defined, an example of it has been pres? ent in the discussion and the members of the group look to that. That example is the deposit. Cephalus says that, though it may be a desirable object, one must return it for fear of divine punishment for not doing so. Polemarchus says that one must not, in deciding whether to return it, consider whether it is desirable for oneself or not, in the case of a friend, but only whether it will do the friend good. Thrasymachus says, that since the gods do not punish and there is no common good, one should keep deposits and try to get as much more as possible, the only consideration being one's own advantage. Glaucon and Adeimantus who are about to enter the discussion understand quite well what Thra? symachus is telling them; and Socrates seems to be saying that it is bad to keep deposits and break faith. This is what draws their attention; and Socrates makes them anxious to know why he thinks it is bad to be? come a tyrant. The question of the goodness of justice, the nature of which they think they know, will be the spur to their quest for the discovery of its true nature. To refute Thrasymachus' contention that it is disadvantageous to be just, Socrates makes three arguments. First, he establishes that Thrasymachus holds the unconventional position that injustice is a virtue, meaning by injustice getting the bet? ter of, or more than, others. Life, in his view, is a competition, and he who is most talented at the struggle possesses the greatest virtue. At the end of a complicated, specious, and amusing chain of reasoning, Soc? rates makes injustice appear to be a vice because it is contrary to wisdom, which is a virtue. The wise man, understood again by Socrates as the possessor of an art, does not seek to win out over other possessors of the same art. As a matter of fact they are, as such, in fun? damental haimony, accepting the same general rules, at one, the same as each other. Mathematicians are all seeking the same result to the same problem, and, as mathematicians, there is no competition among them. The just man is more like the wise man in this than is the unjust man. Hence justice is virtue and injustice vice. Now this would only be convincing if justice were wisdom and if, therefore, the objects of human action could be gained without taking them away from others. This is by no means evident. The result of the [ 335] argument serves to point toward a realm of noble liuman activity which is not essentially competitive, and